
PharmD AdmissionsMerit List for April FEAT Cycle will be updated here
The Department of Pharmacy at Forman Christian College offers Doctor of Pharmacy (PharmD), a five-year professional degree program approved by the Pharmacy Council of Pakistan, to cater the needs of ever growing pharmaceutical industry in research and development, manufacturing, quality assurance, clinical research, marketing, drug regulatory affairs (a major area of pharmacy jobs in the country) and the requirements of pharmaceutical care.
Timeline for the April FEAT Cycle
Classes: August 18, 2025
Students who have completed Intermediate, A-Level, High School, or IB in pre-medical are eligible to apply.
Each applicant can apply to one program only. You cannot apply to Doctor of Pharmacy (PharmD) and any other Bachelor’s program. So, do not try to submit multiple Admission Forms, as only one Admission Form will be considered. If you apply to Doctor of Pharmacy (PharmD) but you are not on its Merit, instead you are on the Merit of Bachelor of Studies (includes 22 majors), you will be offered admission accordingly.
*Intermediate Part 2 result awaiting students are eligible to apply on a provisional basis. IBCC attested copies of the official Matriculation and Intermediate Mark Sheets will be required later on from the admitted students only.
**A Level result awaiting students are eligible to apply on a provisional basis.
Note: All documents submitted must be attested by a Gazetted Officer.
All applicants who have successfully completed the Admission Form and submitted the Application Processing Fee will be emailed the Admit Card for the test. To ensure that you get the Admit Card in time please read the below mentioned instructions:
1. Please click here for instructions on how to pay your Application Processing Fee over the counter in HBL, MCB, UBL, Meezan & Allied Bank.
2. Please click here for instructions on how to pay your Application Processing Fee through HBL, MCB, Meezan Bank & UBL Mobile App & Internet Banking.
3. Please click here to pay the Application Processing Fee online (Instructions for Online Payment are available here).
For a quick response, it is suggested that you email us at admissions@fccollege.edu.pk. While writing an email make sure you mention your Tracking Code (if you have started your application). The Admissions staff members will respond to you within 24 hours at the earliest.
If you have started your application and have any admission-related query, you are also encouraged to write an email to your assigned Admissions Counselor.
You can also contact us at (92 42) 99231581-8, Extension Nos: 566, 317, 377.
Ferozepur Road, Lahore 54600, Pakistan

