Hostel residents must give one-month prior notice to leave the hostel or the full fee for the next month will be charged.
Non-residents of Lahore who want to study at FCCU? We have a solution for that. At FCCU we provide safe and secure housing for almost 630 residents from outside Lahore. Students from across Pakistan from age 17 to 25 years come to FCCU.
We try to inculcate a sense of responsibility through our different activity programs and focus on teaching them how to live with each other irrespective of their race, class, creed, cultural and ethnic background. Students who come from outside Lahore can apply for hostel space in FCCU’s 3 hostels for Bachelor of Studies (BS) students, Shirazi and West Halls provide accommodation to 260 Bachelor of Studies (BS) male students, while Hope Tower houses 370 female Bachelor of Studies (BS) students. Meals are served at fixed times in the dining hall of each hostel. The hostels have faculty members who serve as Guardians and Residents Assistants who live in the hostel and supervise the quality of student life.
Admission to FCCU does not guarantee hostel space. A separate hostel form must be filled to secure hostel space.
We want to inform you regarding some important changes to the hostel allotment rules that will take effect from the 10th of May, 2024. These changes have been implemented to ensure fairness, transparency, and efficiency in the hostel allocation process. Please review the following updates carefully:
• To facilitate maintenance activities during the summer break, hostel students are required to vacate their rooms as the spring semester ends. All belongings must be removed and the keys should be handed over to the hostel management. This practice will be followed annually.
• Students who are unable to take certain items from their belongings back home, will be provided storage space in the hostel.
• Students who would like to retain their present rooms for the upcoming fall semester, would need to register for the semester during real registration and submit proof of registration to the Residential Life Office.
• Students who fail to register for the fall semester on time, will lose their allotment. If they register during the Add/Drop period they might be allotted a different room in the hostel as per the availability of space.
• Only students who have registered for the summer semester will be allowed to reside in their hostel rooms and keep their belongings with them while the summer semester is active
• Accommodation requests from students who do not meet the eligibility criteria for hostel allotment, will be reviewed before the present semester ends. This will offer them clarity on their allotment status before the next semester begins and allow them more time to find alternative accommodation in case their request is denied.
These changes have been made with the best interests of all students in mind. For any questions regarding the hostel allotment process please feel free to visit the Residential Life Office and write to us at hostels@fccollege.edu.pk. We appreciate your cooperation and understanding as we work to improve the hostel allocation process.
Please click here for Hostel Rules & Policies
Note: After getting their roll number, freshmen need to apply through the empower web module against housing requests. Once you submit the form, you will be queued for the respective hostel’s waiting list. After filling this form it is not guaranteed that your hostel allotment is confirmed. Seats will be given on a “FIRST COME, FIRST SERVE” basis.

“All Male Freshman Residents will be accommodated in the FCCU-H38 Hostel during their first semester of university.
Upon entering their second year, they will be relocated to Sherazi/West for the remaining three semesters”.
“All female Freshman Residents will be accommodated in the FCCU-TSA Hostel during their first year of university.
Upon entering their second year, they will be relocated to Hope Tower for the remaining three years”.
Hostel admissions have been closed. Applicants on the waiting list will be contacted through email/ telephone call if the space is available.
For next semester’s applications, you can apply by selecting the term “Spring 2025” on the FCCU empower web module under housing request.
Hostel residents must give one-month prior notice to leave the hostel or the full fee for the next month will be charged.

Non-residents of Lahore who want to study at FCCU? We have a solution for that. At FCCU we provide safe and secure housing for almost 630 residents from outside Lahore. Students from across Pakistan from age 17 to 25 years come to FCCU.

We try to inculcate a sense of responsibility through our different activity programs and focus on teaching them how to live with each other irrespective of their race, class, creed, cultural and ethnic background. Students who come from outside Lahore can apply for hostel space in FCCU’s 3 hostels for Bachelor of Studies (BS) students, Shirazi and West Halls provide accommodation to 260 Bachelor of Studies (BS) male students, while Hope Tower houses 370 female Bachelor of Studies (BS) students. Meals are served at fixed times in the dining hall of each hostel. The hostels have faculty members who serve as Guardians and Residents Assistants who live in the hostel and supervise the quality of student life.

Admission to FCCU does not guarantee hostel space. A separate hostel form must be filled to secure hostel space.

Note: After getting their roll number, freshmen need to apply through the empower web module against housing requests. Once you submit the form, you will be queued for the respective hostel’s waiting list. After filling this form it is not guaranteed that your hostel allotment is confirmed. Seats will be given on a “FIRST COME, FIRST SERVE” basis.
