Bachelor’s Catalog 2024-25

Welcome to Forman Christian College (A Chartered University)! At FCCU, our students
embark on a transformative journey, striving for academic excellence as well as personal
growth. In line with our mission to impart, create, and disseminate knowledge and to
develop informed, ethical, and responsible citizens, our four-year American-style Bachelors
(Hons) degree program is purposefully designed to foster critical thinking, promote
creativity, and develop an enduring commitment to service.
We are proud of our heritage as a private not-for-profit university that has served as a
beacon of learning and leadership since 1864. Our alumni have consistently distinguished
themselves in various fields including government, education, business, culture, media,
diplomacy and beyond. In doing so, they have become agents of change and exemplars of
integrity and innovation.
Our faculty members are not simply educators whose role is limited to the classroom; they
also serve as mentors, dedicated to helping you achieve success. Working with students
both in and out of the classroom, the goal is to ensure a supportive and enriching
educational experience. In addition, your Academic Advisor is available to guide you on
your academic journey.
Our 108-acre garden campus is designed to enhance your university experience still
further. From state-of-the-art academic buildings to comprehensive sports facilities, FCCU
provides a "green" environment that nurtures the body, mind and spirit. In addition, the new
Jim Tebbe Campus Center which officially opens this fall features a digital library, art
gallery, auditorium, dining hall, meeting rooms, lounges, and more, promoting lifelong
connections and contributing to a vibrant campus life.
Limited hostel space is available to accommodate both male and female students,
especially those coming from remote areas of the country. In this regard, the focus is on
first- and second-year students who are new to Lahore and living in this large city for the
first time. A newly renovated hostel on the nearby TSA/FCCU "satellite campus" will be of
special interest to new students, opening up space for more than 80 female students this
Fall.
On the health front, Forman's Mercy Health Center promotes wellness and provides
medical care for students, faculty and staff while the Campus Counseling Center, located
on the second floor of the Mercy Health Center, provides students with a safe space to
share their difficulties and concerns.
Finally, we are motivated by a strong belief that education extends beyond the classroom.
In particular, our wide range of co-curricular activities -- including student societies, cultural
groups, and sports -- promote holistic student development. We take pride in maintaining a
diverse, inclusive, and stimulating environment that not only prepares students for a
successful career but also empowers them to make a positive impact on the society
surrounding them, starting with their university experience. To "borrow" Martin Luther King's
enduring phrase, we seek to build a "beloved community," one that reflects our core values
of integrity, excellence, discipline, justice, respect, and service, guided by our timeless
motto: “By love serve one another.”
Dr. Jonathan Addleton
Message from the Rector


INTRODUCTION TO
FCCU
Bachelor’s Catalog 2024-25
4
Forman Christian College (A Chartered University) has a rich history dating back to its
founding in 1864 by Dr. Charles W. Forman, a Presbyterian missionary from the USA.
Originally named Lahore Mission College, the institution was officially renamed in 1894 to
Forman Christian College in honor of the founder. It started by awarding degrees through
Calcutta University but later transitioned to degrees from the University of the Punjab. In
2004, FCCU was chartered as a university and began awarding its own degrees in 2009.
Throughout its early years, the college experienced remarkable growth in enrollment. From
a modest start with 18 students in 1886, the college's student body expanded rapidly,
reaching 1500 students by the time it was nationalized in 1972. Today, the university
section alone enrolls more than 5,000 students.
The college's campus has seen significant development and relocation. The original
location was Rang Mahal Mission High School inside the walled city. It moved to its present
108-acre campus along the scenic banks of Lahore Canal in 1940. Several major buildings
including Ewing Hall (constructed in 1916) continue to serve the institution's educational
mission.
Throughout its history, FCCU has been led by a distinguished lineup of educational leaders
and teachers such as Dr. C. W. Forman, Nobel Laureate Dr. Arthur Compton, and many
others. This collective leadership has contributed to the college's recognition as one of the
finest educational institutions in South Asia. FCCU was the first college in the area in whose
laboratories research work of Nobel Prize caliber took place. Dr. Arthur Compton received
the Nobel Prize in 1932 for research conducted, in a large part, at FCCU. In 1902, the
college was the first in Punjab to admit women. Notable alumni of FCCU include two
presidents and two prime ministers of Pakistan, as well as leaders in politics, law, and
various other fields. The college's contributions extend to international diplomacy, security,
and a wide range of other domains.
Service to the nation is a core part of FCCUs ethos. The college played a pivotal role during
significant events, including the conversion of two hostels into United Christian Hospital for
refugees during independence, and active involvement in relief efforts during natural
disasters like the Kangra Valley earthquake (1905) and the Quetta earthquake (1935).
Social service by students was popularized by faculty members like Prof. D. J. Fleming.
In 1972, the college was nationalized by the government but was later returned to private
ownership on March 19, 2003. In March 2004, the government granted university status to
FCCU. The university entered an exciting new phase in its history in September 2005,
launching a four-year Bachelor's Degree Program aligned with world-class standards for
accreditation. Since then, FCCU has continued to expand its academic offerings, now
featuring over 20 postgraduate programs.
Forman Christian College (A Chartered University) embodies a legacy of excellence,
service, and continuous growth, fostering a community of scholars, leaders, and
changemakers
Introduction to FCCU



Mission
The mission of Forman Christian College (A Chartered University) is to impart, create, and
disseminate knowledge and to develop informed, ethical, and responsible citizens who are
prepared and committed to learn, lead, and serve; persons who exemplify the FCCU motto,
“By love serve one another”.

Vision
Forman’s vision is to be recognized as one of the best liberal arts institutions of higher
learning in Pakistan and across South Asia.

Goals
Our institutional goals are as follows:
Empowered learners with strong written, oral and quantitative skills that they can use to
evaluate a constant flood of information. The idea is to create in them the ability to think
independently and critically, solve problems and continue a lifetime of self-directed
learning.
Informed learners who understand global and cross-cultural relationships, value the
philosophy and history underlying the nation of Pakistan and are fluent in both their native
language and English.
Responsible learners who understand the ethical consequences of actions and are well-
groomed to be active citizens who accept their public duty and participate in the decision-
making process of a democracy.
Commitment to Excellence
Forman Christian College (A Chartered University) operates all of its programs in
accordance with the highest standards of excellence in education. The educational
programs are designed and implemented in accordance with world-class standards of
accreditation. The University has begun the process of seeking accreditation with one of
the six regional accrediting associations in the USA.
Commitment to Individual Development
FCCU is concerned with the development of the whole person, and therefore encourages
the intellectual, spiritual, cultural, social, emotional and physical growth of each student.
We seek to prepare students for the basic responsibilities of life, and especially for
competent and humane leadership and service. The FCCU experience is designed to help
students go beyond the limitations caused by ignorance, narrowness, conformity, self-
centeredness and irresponsibility. Our goal is to help individuals achieve excellence in
thought and conduct.
Commitment to Core Values
The faculty and staff of FCCU seek to live by, and to teach students, its core values. In a
variety of different settings, students are asked to learn and live by the following values
beginning with signing a 'Shared Commitment' document that highlights the practice of the
Our Commitments

core values on a regular basis.
Integrity: I will speak the truth and keep my commitments. I will take my responsibilities
seriously and fulfill them to the best of my ability.
Excellence: I will be steadfast in my pursuit of excellence. I will set high standards in my
intellectual life, personal behavior and interpersonal relationships. I will honor the traditions
of the University and preserve the beauty of the campus.
Respect for the Dignity of Each Human Being: I will treat others with respect, kindness,
generosity of heart and compassion. I will accept and tolerate differences. I will handle
disagreements with candor and civility.
Discipline and Accountability for my Actions: I will uphold the policies of the University
and follow the rules and regulations. I understand that behavior has consequences. This
understanding is an essential component in the development of my self-discipline.
Fairness and Justice: I will be fair in all of my decisions and work towards justice for
others.
Service: I will live by the motto “By love serve one another”, knowing that serving others is
a way of life that will enrich the community and the nation in which I live.
Community: I will take the concerns of others in the University community to heart.
Because we are bound together by common purpose, objectives and values, the welfare
of all will be my concern.
Commitment of Faculty to Students
The faculty of FCCU is committed to student learning and to helping students succeed in
their studies and be well prepared for a meaningful and productive life after University.
Students will form a close personal relationship with one or more members of the faculty,
and this close student-faculty contact has been one of the strengths of FCCU throughout
its history. Faculty members provide assistance to students, as needed, outside of the
classroom, and they do not charge tuition for this help. Indeed, their contract with the
University prohibits faculty members from charging tuition for extra assistance.
Commitment to General Education
While FCCU is committed to helping students develop competence in a specific field, it is
equally committed to general education. The general education program is designed to
provide a foundation for lifelong learning by helping students to develop a love of learning.
It prepares students for responsible citizenship by teaching them the lessons of history, by
creating awareness of their cultural heritage, by helping them understand the causes of
social and political unrest, and the conditions for stable governance and sustainable
economic development. Through studies in the humanities, the general education program
seeks to help students explore various perspectives on the central concerns of human
existence. The general education program is designed to help students assume increased
responsibility for their own growth, to master the skills that are necessary to understand
and deal with a rapidly changing and increasingly complex world. The program requires
students to take courses in each of the following areas of human knowledge: Humanities,
Natural Sciences, Social and Behavioral Sciences, Mathematics and Computer Sciences.
Commitment to Career Preparation

Enriched with the enduring qualities of a liberal arts education, FCCU seeks to graduate
students who are well-prepared for success in their careers. Through the major field of
study selected by the student, he or she will receive a basic knowledge of a particular field
in enough depth to be successful in entry level positions in a career and to advance
successfully to increased levels of responsibility on the job.
However, it is impossible to predict what a person will need to know for success on the job
twenty years from now, but we do know that in most jobs new knowledge will have to be
mastered that does not even exist today. Therefore, it is more important to learn how to
learn, how to think, how to solve problems, and how to communicate effectively rather than
just to focus narrowly on the content of an academic discipline. The educational program
is designed to help students develop these skills.
Commitment to Co-education
The Bachelors (Hons) Degree Programs of FCCU is co-educational. FCCU first admitted
women in 1902, and it seeks to provide a learning environment in which both men and
women can learn effectively and develop the character traits and personality that will
enable them to succeed in later life. The core value of respect for the dignity of each human
being is also an important consideration for creating a wholesome and positive atmosphere
for learning for both men and women.
Commitment to Lifelong Learning
FCCU seeks to prepare students for a lifetime of self-directed learning. This will be
essential for success in a rapidly changing and increasingly complex world. The faculty
models this commitment by constantly learning about new knowledge in their academic
discipline, and by participation in a variety of professional development programs
presented to them by the University management to help them learn new approaches to
teaching and learning.
Commitment to Providing an American-style Education
The proceeding commitments reflect the commitment to provide an American-style
education. The American system of higher education is widely recognized as the very best
in the world and we seek no less than the best for Pakistan. This commitment is an
approach to education rather than a statement about the specific content of the curriculum.
At FCCU, the role of the faculty and the students, the balance between the breadth and
the depth of learning (General Education and a major field of study) and the structure of
the program reflect best practices in American higher education.
Commitment to Equality of Opportunity
At FCCU, students, faculty and staff are free within the University from all forms of
discrimination based upon gender, race, age, ethnicity, nationality, religion or physical
disability. Decisions regarding employment and admission to the University are based
upon merit. Grades in courses and graduation from the University are based upon the
performance of the student in meeting course and graduation requirements.
Financial Integrity
FCCU is a private, not-for-profit educational institution. All tuition and other fee income
goes directly to the support of the educational program. Tuition and fees pay only a portion
of the educational costs per student. Thanks to the support of donors, the balance of costs
is paid from endowment and gift income from individuals, churches, corporations and
foundations.
CAMPUS

Forman Christian College (A Chartered University) has an impressive and well-maintained
campus with all the facilities needed to create an environment that is truly academic and
conducive to purposeful learning. Centrally located in a beautiful residential area of Lahore,
the campus sprawls over 108 acres along the east bank of the canal.
There are two purpose-built buildings for University students. Inaugurated in 2007, the
Business and Social Sciences Building houses the Social Science Education and
Humanities disciplines including the School of Management. The Armacost Science
Building is a modern state-of-the-art science building for the Departments of Chemistry,
Pharmacy, Environmental Sciences, Physics, Computer Science, Mathematics, Statistics,
and the Kauser Abdulla Malik School of Life Sciences. It was inaugurated in February 2010.
The Ewing Memorial Library has been functioning since 1943 and now contains over
100,000 volumes. It has an automated Library Management System and online and
electronic reference services. Students can use the web-based Information Portal to
search the library catalog and log in to their accounts to view their activity information. The
Digital Library (associated with the Ewing Memorial Library) in the Campus Center has
computer and multimedia workstations, printers, study rooms, an information literacy
classroom, and a research help desk.
The Jim Tebbe Campus Center is the first of its kind in Pakistan and adds an important
new dimension to the university. Measuring more than 180,000 square feet of covered
space, this modern state-of-the-art facility is air-conditioned and houses a digital library
(known as Friends Library) with more than 400 study carrels, a business incubation center,
art gallery, dining room, coffee shop, offices, multiple meeting rooms, large and small
auditoriums, several lounges including student lounges, a female lounge, and a faculty
lounge, smart bank, campus store and other facilities.
Sinclair Hall houses the largest auditorium of the University (seating 740 people). This is
where major events including the annual play and Christmas pageant are held. The Ahmad
Saeed Administration Building (N Block) houses administrative offices including the Rector,
Vice Rector, and Registrar offices.
The main cafeteria offers a place for students to relax between classes. The Lucas Center
houses a basketball court, a gymnasium, and table tennis facilities, along with offices of
the Health and Physical Education Department. FCCU has a vast sports ground in the
middle of the campus and a running track that goes around it. There is also a 25-meter
swimming pool, a baseball field, a gym, a badminton court, four tennis courts and a central
cricket pitch on campus.
Out of seven hostels on the campus, three cater exclusively to university students: Shirazi
and West Hall for men and the Cheryl Burke Hope Tower for Women. Shirazi and West
Halls offer lodging for around 140 men each, while Hope Tower, along with a separate
hostel for female postgraduate students, accommodates approximately 400 women. Also,
as a result of the FCCU/TSA partnership, accommodation for nearly 100 female
undergraduate and graduate students is available at a newly renovated hostel not far from
the Forman Campus. All these hostels feature common rooms, mess halls, and spacious
outdoor recreational areas.
Campus
STUDENT SUCCESS

Our Vision for Student Success:
At FCCU, we wholeheartedly believe that the success of our students is at the core of our
mission. Our dedicated support system is designed to empower students in their pursuit of
self-directed and lifelong learning, ensuring they not only achieve their academic and
professional goals but also contribute meaningfully to their family, country, and the global
community. We are devoted to fostering an environment where students lead with purpose,
embracing responsibility for a sustainable and impactful future. Your journey of success is
our shared mission, and we are here to support you every step of the way.
Student Success Definition:
At FCCU, we see student success as a journey towards holistic development – one that
integrates academic excellence, personal growth, interpersonal relationships, and social
responsibility. Our students embark on a transformative journey of self-directed and lifelong
learning, empowering them to achieve their academic, personal, and professional goals.
Our aim is to prepare discerning individuals who lead with purpose and responsibly serve
their family, country, and global community for a sustainable future.
Student Success
STUDENT LIFE

Learning is not confined to the classrooms and many of the most important lessons learned
during the University years are learned through participation in co-curricular and sports
programs. Forman Christian College (A Chartered University) Lahore offers a great variety
of programs that provide opportunities for students to participate in activities that contribute
to their learning and development. Participating in co-curricular activities helps students to
understand the importance of critical thinking skills, time management, and academic and
intellectual competence.
Residential Life
Residential life strives to provide a safe and supportive residential environment that
complements and extends the educational experience of students. An on-campus
residential facility is available to students who come from different cities other than
Lahore. Due to limited residential facilities, the Residential Life Office allots rooms to
freshmen male students for two years (four semesters) and female students for four years
(eight semesters) on a first-come-first-serve basis. The hostels are supervised by the
Guardians with the assistance of senior students, who serve as Residential Assistants to
supervise activities and engage students in co-curricular activities.
Co-Curricular
FCCU is committed to providing holistic education. Classroom learning is supplemented
by opportunities for students' intellectual and moral growth through carefully planned
literary, academic, cultural, and recreational activities and programs. The Student
Activities Office coordinates and promotes activities through student societies. Besides
campus-wide societies, all academic departments also have their own student societies.
Each society plans and conducts programs throughout the year that enrich the learning
experiences of students and provide them with leadership opportunities.
Student societies have their own website: www.fccsocieties.org. The following societies
are currently functioning:
ACM FCCU Chapter Armacost Psychological Society
The Art Junction Forman Sports Society
Benade Physics Society Forman Statistics Society
Character Building Society Forman Urdu Society
Dean Geographical Society Formanites Debating Society
Earth Watch Club FORMUN
Ewing English Society Google Developer Student Club
Forman Biology Society Griswold History Society
Forman Dramatics Club IEEE FCCU
Forman Education Society International Affairs Society
Forman Finance Society Leadership Forum
Forman Islamic Society Lucas Economics Society
Student Life

14
Forman Journalism Society Omni Life
Forman Music Society Rotaract Club FCCU
Forman Pharmaceutical Society Salam Mathematics Society
Forman Philosophy Society Speers Chemical Society
Forman Photography Society Women Empowerment Society
Forman Political Science Society Young Entrepreneurial Platform
Forman Sociological Society Young Peace and Development Corps
Religious Life
FCCU is committed to cultivating solid values and strengthening positive character and
discipline in its students. For Muslim students, there are two mosques on campus, with
Juma prayers offered at the main mosque. The university also convenes Dars-e-Quran
classes along with symposiums and discussions, inviting eminent Muslim scholars to
deliver talks and engage students in discussions on important religious, social and moral
issues. For Christian students a weekly chapel service is offered on Friday. In addition to
the weekly chapel program, the university provides regular Bible study groups and
opportunities for volunteer service. No classes are scheduled on Friday during Juma or
Chapel time.
Sports
The University Sports Office along with the Sports Society organizes, promotes, and
conducts various games. The Sports Society oversees a very active intramural sports
program with competition in athletics, basketball, cricket, football, baseball, hockey, table
tennis, wrestling, lawn tennis and swimming. Players at all skill levels are welcome to
participate, and often these competitions and matches are quite competitive. Selection
for the University team and participating in inter-varsity competitions are a source of pride
for any player.
Cafeterias
Student-faculty-staff social interaction in a more relaxed setting takes place at the
cafeteria. The faculty is available to assist students outside the class, and the cafeteria is
occasionally an appropriate setting for this interaction. More typically, it is simply a place
for students to go for lunch or snacks between classes.
On-Campus Health Services
Mercy Health Center is an on-campus facility focused on promoting wellness and
providing medical care for our campus community. The medical team includes a full-time
doctor as well as several fully certified nurses. The Health Center has on-going
relationships with several nearby hospitals and medical laboratories for cases that require
specialized attention. Mercy Health Center provides the following services:
•
Treatment of minor injuries and illnesses
•
Confidential medical guidance and support
•
Health guidance for students living with chronic illness/disability
• Referrals to outside medical care and community resources
•
Seminars and small group classes on various healthy living topics
Campus Counseling Center
The Campus Counseling Center, located in the Mercy Health Center, is a facility to help
students deal with concerns and difficulties that they may not want to discuss with family,
friends or their teachers. It offers an emotional and physical space for the Forman
community to share openly and honestly without the fear of judgment. Individual
counseling plans are devised to suit the unique needs of each client. The Campus
Counseling Center provides the following services:
•
Individual and confidential counseling
•
Referrals to other professionals when needed
•
Crisis intervention
• Seminars and workshops
•
Access to books and articles that deal with mental health and emotional wellbeing
Writing and Communication Center
The Writing and Communication Center at FCCU is dedicated to supporting students in
their writing and research endeavors. Recognizing that the demands of university-level
writing are specialized and often require additional guidance beyond the classroom,
FCCU stands out as one of the few universities in Pakistan with a fully operational
writing center. This facility offers personalized, one-on-one tutoring tailored to each
student’s specific writing needs, facilitated by trained tutors. Students have the flexibility
to sign up for appointments or walk in at their convenience to meet with a tutor.
In addition to individual tutoring, the Writing Center hosts workshops led by experts,
focusing on various aspects of university-level writing and research. These resources aim
to enhance students’ skills and confidence in their academic writing.
Discipline
All students are expected to uphold standards of dignity, self-respect, honesty, and
courtesy in their conduct. Strict adherence to disciplinary standards is mandatory. The
Rector’s decisions regarding disciplinary matters are final and legally binding on all
students. Proctors are responsible for maintaining discipline, enforcing rules of good
conduct, and taking necessary disciplinary actions when required.
Expectations of Conduct
1. Rules and Regulations: Students must observe all rules and regulations governing
their studies, including both theoretical and practical components, as established from
time to time.
2. Attendance: Students are required to attend all lectures, laboratory sessions, and
academic activities for the courses in which they are enrolled.
3. Academic Integrity: Acts of dishonesty and cheating, particularly during
examinations, are strictly prohibited and will result in punitive action if proven.
4. Behavioral Standards: Students must refrain from any behavior that poses a threat
to fellow students, faculty, staff, or any other individuals associated with the University.
Disciplinary Consequences
Students involved in any of the following activities will face serious disciplinary
consequences, which may include fines, parental undertakings, suspension, or expulsion
from the University for a period of one semester to one year, depending on the severity
of the offense:
• Causing, attempting to cause, or threatening physical injury to another person
(e.g., fighting).
• Willfully using force against another person, except in self-defense.
• Possession of dangerous objects that may cause harm or injury (e.g., metal rods,

knives, firearms).
• Selling, possessing, or using alcohol, drugs, intoxicants, or controlled substances.
• Possessing or smoking tobacco or using any tobacco products.
• Engaging in hate violence or degrading/inflammatory behavior towards others,
including hazing.
• Offering to sell or delivering a controlled substance or a substitute.
• Continued disruption of class or university activities, or repeated defiance of
university authorities.
• Intimidation, bullying, or making threats towards university staff or students.
By adhering to these guidelines, students contribute to a safe and respectful learning
environment for everyone at the University.
Dress Code
The purpose of the FCCU dress code is to ensure that our students are dressed in a
dignified manner. This means that the clothing worn should be clean, neat, modest and
reflective of the culture in which we are operating. The FCCU ID card must be visibly
displayed at all times on campus
Sexual Harassment Policy
Sexual harassment is unacceptable behavior at Forman Christian College (A Chartered
University) and such behavior will be subject to disciplinary action. Harassment refers to
behaviors that are intended to be offensive, threatening or disturbing to the recipient. To
harass is to persistently annoy, attack, or bother someone.
Sexual harassment is defined as any unwelcome sexual advance, request for sexual
favors, or other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature that is offensive,
embarrassing, intimidating or humiliating. This includes:
• Instances when the harassment has the purpose or effect of unreasonably
interfering with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile
or offensive environment
• Instances when submission to the harassment is made either explicitly or implicitly
a term or condition of fair treatment
Specific examples include, but are not limited to:
• Touching in an inappropriate way
• Staring or leering
• Requests for sex
• Subtle pressure for sexual activity or sexual innuendos
• Display of sexually explicit picture
• Repeated references to various parts of the body at inappropriate times
• Requests for dates when the other person has made it clear that she or he is not
interested
• Hooting, whistles or other suggestive noises or gestures
• Suggestive comments or jokes
• Insults, name-calling or taunts based on a person's gender
• Derogatory graffiti referring to a person's character or making sexual implications
• Sexually explicit emails, text messages, social media communication, etc.
• Spreading rumors about another person's sexual behavior
• Intrusive questions about a person's private life or body
• Any romantic or sexual behavior that you would consider to be inappropriate if
directed at a member of your family
Sexual harassment does not refer to compliments or other behaviors that are considered
to be socially appropriate.
There should be no relationships of a romantic or sexual nature between any faculty or
staff member and a student. There is no exception to this. A student should not attempt
to initiate such a relationship for any reason. There should be no attempt by a student to
gain better grades or access to exams or assignments by encouraging or offering such
relationships. Any pursuit of such relationships by a faculty or staff member should be
immediately reported to the counselor or the Chief Student Services Officer.
All faculty and staff members are required to report instances of harassment if they are
aware of any. Any faculty or staff member encouraging a student not to report such
instances will be subject to disciplinary action.
FCCU has adopted the Code of Conduct from the Protection against the Harassment of
Women Act of 2010.
The link to that full document can be found at www.aasha.org.pk.
FEE STRUCTURE

Fees are expected to increase each year depending on inflation and other costs:
• Billing Cycle: Billing occurs on a semester basis, with full-time and part-time
status impacting the fee structure.
• Full-Time Students: Students taking between 12 to 18 credit hours are
considered full-time and are charged the full semester fees.
•
Part-Time and Overload Charges: Students taking 11 credits or less are
considered part-time and are charged on a per-credit-hour basis. Overloads above
18 credits are charged on a per-credit-hour basis as well.
• Payment Deadlines: All tuition, hostel and other fees must be paid by the date
specified by the University which are also published on the university website. Any
outstanding balances will result in a business hold on the student's empower
account, until dues are cleared. Late payments will result in late fee fines.
• Hold Clearance and Add/Drop Registration: Students can get their holds
removed and re-register during add/drop. All courses on a student's schedule at
the end of add/drop will be charged.
• Withdrawal: In case of withdrawal after Add/Drop period, tuition fee will remain
charged, and student must pay fee for withdrawn courses.
Additional Course-Related Charges
• Science Course Fee: A science course fee will be applied for each 200-level or
higher science course taken by students outside the PharmD and Biotechnology
(Hons) programs.
• Media Lab Fee: A media lab fee will be applied to each course that utilizes the
Media Lab facilities.
• Internship and Student Teaching Practice Fees: Internship and Student Teaching
Practice courses are charged at a different rate than standard courses. Detailed
information on these rates can be found in the accounts section of the University
website.
• Applicable Taxes: Students are responsible for any government and withholding
taxes where applicable.
For further information, see the FCCU website.
Tuition Refund Policy
HEC and FCCU refund policies are strictly observed. No refunds are issued for students
who drop to part-time status after registration. Tuition and other fees are not refundable
under the Higher Education Commission's National Level Refund Policy.
Timelines
Fee Refund Policy
Withdrawals before the semester begins
or within the first 7 days of
commencement of classes
Eligible for a full fee refund (general
security plus any installment of tuition
fee paid).
Withdrawals from the 8th to the 15th day
of commencement of classes
50% of the first installment will be
charged.
Withdrawals on or after the 16th day of
classes
Tuition Fee shall be charged as per the
installment plan.
Fee Structure

• The date on which written notice of leaving the university is given to the admission
office will be considered for calculating the timeline for refund of tuition fee. The
timeline will be calculated continuously, covering both weekdays and weekends.
• A security fee refund is subject to clearance of all outstanding dues. Admission fee
is non-refundable.
Hostel Dues and Charges
• Installment Structure: Hostel dues are payable in four equal installments.
• Initial Payment Requirement: The first installment of hostel dues must be settled
before room allocation.
• Mess Charges: Compulsory mess charges for the semester are to be paid in four
equal installments while extra mess (voluntary) meal charges are charged on a
monthly basis.
• Leaving the Hostel: For leaving the hostel during the term, one month’s notice
should be given to the Residential Life Office. If no notice is given, full occupancy
and compulsory mess will remain charged.
Hostel Refund Policy
Hostel dues are charged in three categories: Hostel Registration, Occupancy Charges and
Meal Charges.
The Hostel refund policy is:
•
Application Process: Refund applications should be submitted to the Accounts Office by
the student through Residential Life Office.
•
Hostel Registration fee is non-refundable.
Financial Appeals Committee
This committee is comprised of staff members from all related departments and is
responsible for hearing appeals involving issues with financial impact for students.
• Appeals on account of hardship do not fall under the purview of this committee but
will be forwarded to the Financial Aid or other relevant offices
• The decision of this committee regarding the appeals will be deemed final and
binding on both parties
Hostel/Mess Security
Full refund, if all outstanding dues are
cleared.
Occupancy Charges and
Compulsory Mess Charges
One month’s notice should be given for
leaving
the
hostel.
Occupancy
and
compulsory mess will be charged on the pro-
rata basis till the last day of notice period.
FINANCIAL AID & MERIT
SCHOLARSHIPS
2
The Financial Aid and Scholarships Office at Forman Christian College (FCCU) was
established in 2008 to make higher education accessible to deserving and talented students,
focusing on affordability and academic excellence.
Since the launch of the program, FCCU has distributed over rupees 2.5 billion in full and
partial scholarships to more than 35,000 beneficiaries. For the academic year 2022-23,
FCCU had disbursed funds amounting to over Rupees 337 million to 2316 students. During
the academic year 2023-24, FCCU has budgeted to distribute over Rupees 415 million to
more than 2300 students.
Undergraduate Scholarships 2024-2025
Merit Scholarships for High Achievers:
Merit Scholarships are offered to high achievers based on their T-Score, which is an
aggregate of past academic performance and the Forman Entrance Admission Test (FEAT
Accuplacer). The Merit Scholarship award is for program tuition fee only.
• 25% tuition fee scholarship for all candidates with T-Score 69.
• 50% tuition fee scholarship for all candidates with T-Score 70 and above.
Rector and Vice Rector Merit Scholarships for Exceptional Students:
Prospective students with T-Score of 70 and above would be eligible to compete through a
rigorous interview process for:
• Rector's Merit Scholarship - 100% Tuition Fee waiver for one prospective student.
• Vice Rector's Merit Scholarship - 75% Tuition Fee waiver for one prospective
student.
Eligible students will be notified through the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office. The
Scholarship offer will lapse if not availed on time. Students who want to stay in the
contention of being considered for Merit Scholarship, must apply no later than the July
FEAT Cycle, and secure admission.
Need-Based Financial Aid
Forman Christian College (A Chartered University) is committed to ensuring that deserving,
qualified students do not abandon their educational aspirations due to financial constraints.
To support this vision, FCCU allocates a substantial portion of its annual budget to need-
based financial aid for students who demonstrate both financial need and academic merit.
These financial aid awards are granted on a non-discriminatory, equal-opportunity basis.
Provisional Assessment on Admission Offer:
Candidates with valid admission offers may apply for provisional assessment by visiting the
Financial Aid & Scholarships Office with an application form and necessary supporting
documents.
Financial Aid and Merit Scholarships

Work-Study Program
Work-Study Program (WSP) is intended to facilitate students by providing on-campus
employment and professional development opportunities. Students may apply online, and
the list of eligible students is shared by the Financial Aid & Scholarships Office with the hiring
department for selection of the student(s). A stipend is provided to the beneficiary based on
the number of hours worked, which is adjusted against the tuition fee.
All financial aid beneficiaries are encouraged to apply for this program to gain valuable work
experience and develop key skills.
Sports-based Scholarships
FCCU offers tuition fee scholarships up to 75% to highly talented and competent players in
different sports categories under individual games. The screening process to select a suitable
candidate is performed by the Sports Scholarship Committee through trials and interviews.
The admission criteria remain the same as for other regular candidates and the following
terms and conditions apply:
• Scholarships will primarily be offered for individual games, which include athletics,
boxing, bodybuilding, swimming, taekwondo, weightlifting, and team games on a case-
to-case basis.
• The winner of the Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education (BISE)
tournament(s) will be considered for a scholarship.
• The scholarship will be applied to the tuition fee only for one year and will be renewable
based on annual performance.
• For scholarship renewal, students must bring at least one medal by participating in
national games, provincial games, and Higher Education Commission (HEC)
intervarsity competitions.
• Scholarship recipients must maintain a minimum CGPA of 2.0 and a clean disciplinary
record.
FCCU Women Empowerment Scholarship Program
Forman Christian College (A Chartered University) is offering Eight (8) fully funded tuition and
hostel fee scholarships (except meals) for the academic year 2024-2025 to meritorious and
deserving female students joining our four-year undergraduate program.
The purpose of this scholarship is to prepare women for leadership while also attracting
additional students from remote areas of Pakistan to Forman campus by inspiring and
enabling women to pursue quality higher education. Interested female students from Khyber
Pakhtunkhwa, Baluchistan, Sindh, Gilgit-Baltistan; Chitral and Kalash valley) and Kashmir
are encouraged to apply with following terms and conditions:
• Successful completion of admission requirements.
• Must have Domicile issued by the provincial government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa,
Baluchistan, Sindh, Gilgit-Baltistan (Chitral and Kalash) or Kashmir.
• Must be first generation student and family have a demonstrated financial need.
Bachelor’s Catalog 2024-25
24
• Demonstrated ability to learn new skills accompanied by the commitment to serve
FCCU community while on campus.
After successful completion of FCCU admission test, high scorers will be shortlisted and
invited for a selection interview. Preference will be given to meritorious yet deserving first
generation students who would otherwise be unable to obtain higher education. Female
students from remote areas of Pakistan who are not selected for ten fully funded scholarships
are encouraged to apply for Forman’s broader need-based Financial Aid program, providing
another mechanism that can be used to help support their university education.
Visit Forman’s website on financial information to get more information on Zakat Fund,
applying for Government scholarships the Punjab Educational Endowment Fund (PEEF), the
Baluchistan Educational Endowment Fund (BEEF).
Note:
• The deserving students may apply for need-based financial aid despite availing any
other scholarship offered under various programs.
• The total of financial aid and scholarship awards shall not exceed the sum of fees
charged to the student in a semester.
Criteria for Continuation of Merit and Need-Based Financial Aid
For merit scholarships the applicant must:
• Maintain a minimum CGPA (Cumulative Grade Point Average) of 3.00 and remain
enrolled as a full-time student in each regular semester.
• Maintain a clean disciplinary record, ensuring no disciplinary actions are taken
during their time at the University.
To retain eligibility for need-based scholarships, the applicant must:
• Maintain the CGPA required for Good Academic Standing, as outlined in this
catalog, and remain enrolled as a full-time student (12 or more credits) in each
regular semester.
• Maintain a clean disciplinary record throughout their academic tenure at the
University.
Note: Merit and Need-Based Financial Aid is awarded up to 8 regular semesters to meet
the minimum graduation requirement.
•
Summer and Winter semesters are not covered
•
Science, Media lab charge and course packs are not covered
• Students are responsible for government withholding taxes where applicable.
ACADEMIC POLICIES
& PROCEDURES

Medium of Instruction
At FCCU, the medium of instruction is English. Students entering the Bachelor's programs
with deficiencies in English language proficiency will be required to enroll in pre-university
English language courses. These courses are specifically designed to support students in
transitioning effectively into the academic demands of the Bachelor's programs.
Class Attendance
Students are expected to attend all classes and laboratory sessions in the courses for
which they are registered. Students who miss classes are far less likely to succeed in
meeting the requirements of the course. The university's minimum accepted attendance is
67%, however individual teachers may set higher requirements. Each teacher outlines his
or her expectations for class attendance in the course syllabus. Teachers are expected to
keep accurate records of student attendance. If a student does not attend the percentage
set by the instructor on the course syllabus of the class and laboratory sessions, he/she
will not be permitted to take the final examination in the course.
Standards of Academic Progress
Forman Christian College (A Chartered University) upholds high standards for student
performance, as we believe that excelling in coursework is essential preparation for future
leadership opportunities. We encourage our students to strive for excellence and will
monitor their academic progress to ensure they are aware of any emerging concerns.
Normal progress toward graduation is defined as completing five courses per semester
(equivalent to 15 to 18 credits) with a grade of C or higher.
Good Academic Standing, Probation, and Dismissal
At the end of each semester, the Academic Review Committee evaluates the progress of all
students to determine their status in "Good Academic Standing." To maintain Good
Academic Standing, students must meet the following requirements:
Classification
Semester Credit Hours
Completed
Minimum CGPA Required for Good
Standing
Freshmen
01-30
1.50
Sophomore
31-60
1.75
Junior
61-90
2.00
Senior
90 or More
2.00
Additionally, students are required to declare a major by the end of their fourth semester
and must be enrolled in courses that align with the timely completion of their declared
major. Students who fail a course, have multiple Withdrawals, Incompletes, and/or receive
"D" grades will also undergo review.
Academic Dismissal and Readmission
Students are expected to maintain good academic standing throughout their academic
Academic Policies & Procedures

career. Official notifications regarding academic standing will be issued to all full-time
students whose performance does not meet the University's prescribed standards. After
each semester, the Academic Advising Center, the Academic Review Committee, and the
Vice Rector & Associate Vice Rector for Academic Affairs will assess whether students
experiencing academic difficulties will be placed on Academic Probation, suspended on
Probation, or dismissed from the University. Academic Dismissal is subject to specific
conditions (outlined below).
The designation "Academic Probation" will appear on a student's transcript if their academic
performance falls below the required standards for Good Academic Standing. This serves as
a formal alert to students that their academic performance is insufficient for graduation, and
that, unless improvement is demonstrated in the following semester, they may face dismissal.
Students placed on Academic Probation must adhere to the following conditions:
• Enroll in no more than five courses during a regular semester.
• Attend all classes for each enrolled course.
• Meet with an Academic Advisor at least once every two weeks.
• Regularly visit the Academic Advising Center to discuss academic plans and progress
with academic support officers or student success advisors.
• Comply with any additional requirements set by the Academic Review Committee.
• Any student who fails to comply with the conditions of Academic Probation will be
subject to review by the Academic Review Committee and/or the Vice
Rector/Associate Vice Rector at any time and may be dismissed from the University.
• The Committee may decide to Drop a student whose academic performance
consistently falls below the required minimum standards and who remains on
probation for more than one semester. In such cases, the student may request
readmission after completing a full, regular semester. (Generally, students will not be
allowed to re-enroll during Summer or Winter semesters after being Dropped.)
Students requesting readmission should meet with an Academic Advisor and submit
a written letter. Note that a student who is dropped for a second time will not be eligible
to return to continue their degree program, effectively terminating the opportunity to
complete their degree at FCCU.
Removal from Academic Probation
Probationary status will remain in effect until the student's CGPA meets the required
threshold for Good Academic Standing.
Suspension from Co-Curricular and Sports Activities
A student placed on academic probation or facing dismissal for a second consecutive
semester will be suspended from participating in co-curricular and sports activities. This
suspension allows the student to dedicate their full attention to academic work. Additionally,
no student with a CGPA below 2.0 is eligible to compete in any officially sanctioned sports
event (whether FCCU or HEC).
Academic Integrity Issues
The Academic Integrity Committee will review all cases involving breaches of academic
integrity. This includes, but is not limited to, instances of forgery (such as students signing
on behalf of advisors, faculty, or staff) and plagiarism. All cases of forgery will result in a
fine and an automatic hearing by the designated committee.

Academic Advising (Academic Support for Forman Students)
Each student will be assigned an Academic Advisor, who will assist with course selection,
class schedules, career planning, and personal development. Once a student declares a
major, advising will be handled by a faculty member from the respective department. It is
the student's responsibility to meet with their Advisor at least once each semester to review
academic progress. Students will receive as much guidance as needed, along with the
freedom to make decisions they can responsibly manage.
The Student Academic Support Officers in the Academic Advising Center and the Student
Success Advisors are also available for any student requiring assistance. The center,
located in the Jim Tebbe Campus, is open Monday through Friday from 10:00 am to 4:00
pm.
Majors and Minors
Students must fulfill the requirements of a major field of study to be eligible for graduation.
The number of credit hours required for the major varies depending on the degree program
chosen, but it will not be fewer than 39 credit hours.
FCCU offers 27 different majors, three of which include specializations within the major.
The specific courses required to complete each major are detailed in the departmental
sections of the catalog.
offered majors: Biological Sciences, Biological Sciences, Biotechnology, Business with specializations in: Accounting & Finance, Operations Management, Marketing and Sales, Human Resources, Chemistry, Computer Science
offered majors: (2): Economics, Education, English, Linguistics, Environmental Sciences, Human Geography, Physical Geography, History, Mass Communication with specializations in: Print and Electronic Media, Advertising and Public Relations
offered majors: (3): Mathematics, Pharmacy (PharmD), Philosophy, Physics, Political Science: Political Philosophy, International Relations, Pakistan politics, Comparative Politics, Psychology, Applied Psychology, Religious Studies majors: Islamic Studies, Christian Studies, Sociology, Sociology and Cultural Studies, Statistics, Urdu

Change of program (Online Form)
Please note that a program change request will not be approved if the student’s merit at
the time of admission was below the required merit for the program they are requesting
to transfer into.
The student's request will be reviewed by the following:
1. The Chairperson of the department for the program the student wishes to enter.
a) The Academic Dean of the new program.
b) If the student is changing to a Bachelor of Studies program (other than BSB
or Biotechnology), no approval from the Chairperson or Dean is required.
The student may proceed directly to the Accounts Office.
c) The decisions made by the Academic Dean and the department
Chairperson are final.
2. Once the change is approved, a copy of the approval will be forwarded to the
Accounts Office to adjust the fee structure. The new fee structure will take effect in
the semester following the approval.
3. After the fee structure has been changed, the form will be forwarded to the
Academic Services Office to change the program.
4. Finally, the student’s advisor and major will be updated by the Academic Advising
Center.
5. If a change of program request is denied, the student is not permitted to seek new
admission into the desired program.
For any further questions or clarifications, please contact the Academic Services Office.
Degree Completion Requirements
In alignment with the Higher Education Commission (HEC) of Pakistan's policy mandating
eight regular semesters (fall and spring), Forman Christian College (FCCU) has established
the following guidelines:
Students are required to complete 8 semesters (fall and spring) to graduate. Summer and
Winter terms may be taken at the student's discretion, but these terms should only be used
to ensure timely graduation or to address any academic deficiencies. They should not be
used as an attempt to graduate early.
While FCCU will recognize degrees once all requirements are fulfilled, please note that the
HEC will only attest degrees if the program includes a minimum of eight regular semesters.
Multiple Majors and Minors
Students are allowed to pursue more than one major. However, it is important to note that
the Higher Education Commission (HEC) recognizes only the first major listed on the
transcript. If a student intends to graduate with multiple majors or a combination of a major
and a minor, all requirements must be completed according to the same catalog.

External review of credit bearing Research/Final Year Project
Students undertaking credit-bearing research projects or final year projects within their
chosen field are required to complete the work under the supervision of a faculty member.
Upon completion, the department chairperson will forward the thesis, along with the Turnitin
report, to the Controller of Examinations Office for external evaluation. The Controller of the
Examinations Office will then notify the Academic Services Office of the grade awarded by
the external examiner.
Bachelor of Studies (Hons) in 23 Majors
The following requirements must be fulfilled by all students to qualify for formal
recommendation by the faculty for the Bachelor of Studies (Hons) Degree:
• The satisfactory completion of a minimum of 124 credit hours with a cumulative
grade point average (CGPA) of 2.0 or better as well as a minimum grade point
average (GPA) of 2.0 in the major.
• The completion of at least 12 upper-level courses labeled at the 300 or 400 level.
• The satisfactory completion of a major field of study from a list of those offered by
the University and specific to one catalog only. For the Bachelor of Studies (Hons)
core and elective courses must be completed as stated in the requirements of the
selected major.
• The satisfactory completion of the General Education requirements of the University
• The successful completion of the senior capstone courses in the major as required
Bachelor of Studies (Hons) in Business
The following requirements must be fulfilled by all students in order to qualify for formal
recommendation by the faculty for the Bachelor of Studies (Hons) in Business:
• The satisfactory completion of a minimum of 124 credit hours with a cumulative
grade point average (CGPA) of 2.0 or better as well as a minimum grade point
average (GPA) of 2.0 in the major.
• The completion of at least 12 upper-level courses labeled at the 300 or 400 level.
• At least 72 credit hours (including core courses) of Business courses as specified in
the catalog.
• The satisfactory completion of the General Education requirements of the University.
• The successful completion of the senior capstone courses in the major as required.
Bachelor of Studies (Hons) in Computer Science
The following requirements must be fulfilled by all students to qualify for formal
recommendation by the faculty for the Bachelor of Studies (Hons) in Computer Science:
• The satisfactory completion of at least 132 credit hours with cumulative grade point
average (CGPA) of 2.0 or better as well as minimum a grade point average (GPA)
of 2.0 in the major
• The completion of at least 12 upper-level courses labeled at the 300 or 400 level.
• At least 92 credit hours (including core, supporting & elective courses) of Computer
Science courses as specified in the catalog.
• The satisfactory completion of the General Education requirements of the University.
Bachelor of Studies (Hons) in Biotechnology
The following requirements must be fulfilled by all students to qualify for formal
recommendation by the faculty for the Bachelor of Studies (Hons) in Biotechnology:
• The satisfactory completion of minimum 124 credit hours with a cumulative grade
point average (CGPA) of 2.0 or better as well as a minimum grade point average
(GPA) of 2.0 in the major.
• The completion of at least 12 upper-level courses labeled at the 300 or 400 level.
Bachelor’s Catalog 2024-25
31
• At least 64 credit hours (including core courses) of Biotechnology and Biology
courses as specified in the catalog.
• The satisfactory completion of the General Education requirements of the University.
• The successful completion of the senior capstone courses in the major as required.
Doctor of Pharmacy (PharmD)
The following requirements must be fulfilled by all students to qualify for formal
recommendation by the faculty for the Doctor of Pharmacy (PharmD) (A five-year
professional degree)
• The satisfactory completion of 205 credit hours with a cumulative grade point
average (CGPA) of 2.0 or better as well as a grade of 'D' or better in each course,
as per curriculum approved by of the Pharmacy Council of Pakistan/Higher
Education Commission of Pakistan.
• The satisfactory completion of the General Education requirements of the University
Major GPA.
• The GPA calculated by tabulating ALL courses in the major taken by the student.
Requirements for Minor
An approved minor is outlined in the department’s section of the catalog. To pursue a minor
in a specific discipline, the student must complete the requirements for the minor as
specified in the catalog.
Mandatory Undergraduate Internship
Effective from the 2022-2023 catalog, this internship policy applies to students enrolling in
the fall semester and beyond. All Bachelor’s and Biotechnology students will be required
to choose between a Standard Internship or an Academic Internship. Professional
programs (PharmD) and programs accredited by relevant councils (such as Business,
Computer Science, and Education) must adhere to the internship policies set forth by their
respective accrediting bodies.
General Education
Forman Christian College (A Chartered University) is a liberal arts university. The purpose
of the General Education requirement is to introduce students to a broad range of
intellectual pursuits, to provide sufficient breadth of knowledge to prepare them for their
role as citizens, to equip them with communication and analytical skills, to help them to
integrate knowledge that comes from different disciplines and to prepare them for a lifetime
of self-directed learning.
Distribution Requirement
There are two components of the General Education requirement. First is the
demonstration of competency as determined by performance on University assessment
examinations given as final exams in the general education course related to each of the
following five areas:
• Written communication in Urdu (URDU 101)
• WRCM 101: Writing and Communication I
• WRCM 102: Writing and Communication II
• Quantitative skills (MATH 100 or FEAT Math’s score at the time of admission)
• Information Technology (CSCS 100 or COMP 102)
There are four categories of General Education. A total of 15 required courses fulfills
General Education requirements. Further explanation is stated below.
Any course of three credits or more, including Major courses, fulfill this requirement
Bachelor’s Catalog 2024-25
32
Humanities: 6 courses
All students must complete the following:
Religious Studies:
• Islamic Education 101 (required for all Muslim students) or Christian Ethics 152
Communication:
• WRCM 101: Writing and Communication I
• WRCM 102: Writing and Communication II
• URDU 101: Communicative Urdu
2 other courses from Humanities:
• Two (2) courses must be selected from English, History, Mass Communication,
Philosophy, Religious Studies (Christian or Islamic Studies) Urdu, Arts, or Foreign
Languages.
Social and Behavioral Sciences: 3 Courses
A student must take:
• 1 Pakistan Studies course –PKST 101
• 2 courses from: Business, Economics, Education, Geography, Political Science,
Psychology or Sociology.
Science and Mathematics: 5 Courses
Students must take:
• 2-four credit Science courses with labs (from two different disciplines): Biological
Sciences, Chemistry, Physics, Environmental Sciences or Pharmacy
• 1 Mathematics course
• 1 Computer Science course
• 1 other course in either Natural Science, Mathematics, Statistics, Logic (PHIL 221)
or Computer Science
Foundations of University Education (UNIV 100): 1 Course
All University Freshmen students must take UNIV 100 during their first semester or after
they have finished the ELP program. Transfer students with 60 or more credits are
exempted from UNIV 100. See details for Transfer based exemption.
Academic Credit
Credit towards a degree is awarded for satisfactory course completion, independent study
or academic work certified by another accredited degree granting institution (covered in
the Transfer Credit policy).
One credit is defined as one hour of classroom or direct faculty instruction and a minimum
of two hours of out-of-class student work each week of the semester. A credit hour means
teaching a theory course for 50 minutes each week throughout the semester. At least an
equivalent amount of work is required for other academic activities including laboratory
work, internships, practical, studio work, and other academic work leading to the award of
credit hours. Thus, one credit hour in laboratory or practical work/project requires lab
contact of a minimum of two hours per week throughout the semester and one hour per
week of out-of-class work, for a total of three hours.
Ordinarily credit is earned by course completion. A normal full-time academic load is five
courses per semester. A student may take a minimum of 12 semester credit hours or a
Bachelor’s Catalog 2024-25
33
maximum of 17 semester credit hours and still be considered a full-time student. Additional
permission is required for overloads above 17 credit hours.
If a student enrolls in fewer than 12 credit hours, he/she is considered to be a part-time
student. Enrollment for more than 17 credit hours is very rare and requires the approval of
the Academic Advising Center and payment of any additional fees, if applicable.
Permission to carry an overload will be granted based on a CGPA of 3.0 or above. Senior
students (over 90 completed credits) with a lower CGPA can take an overload (after they
receive the proper permissions) if they require the overload in order to graduate on time.
Complete URDU Exemption
Exemption for URDU 101 is granted by the Associate Vice Rector for Academic Affairs for
the following types of academic backgrounds:
• Pakistani students who graduated from American or other foreign High School
systems, either in Pakistan or in a foreign country.
• Foreign students who graduated from a High School system outside of Pakistan.
• Students who studied URDU as a second language/Easy Urdu in O level.
An exemption of URDU 101 requires substitution of another course in the Humanities. It is
the student's responsibility to have this course properly substituted by the Academic Office.
FEAT-Based Exemption
MATH 100 and Mathematics Competency: Students who achieve a score of 75 or higher
on a score range of 20-120, or 263 or higher on a score range of 200-300 on the Forman
Entrance Admissions Test (FEAT) have met the Mathematics Competency requirement
and are exempt from studying Math 100. Exemption of Math 100 through FEAT requires
that any course with a MATH prefix from the Science and Mathematics category course be
studied to replace this general education requirement.
Transfer-based Exemption
UNIV 100 Students who transfer into FCCU with 60 or more credits are exempt from
studying UNIV 100. This is given at the time of transfer and admission and is not credit
based. The required credits must be earned through the study of an additional course in
the humanities category.
Exemption Requiring Substitution
Exemptions made in the above manner require course substitution by appropriately
replacing the exempted course for degree audit purposes. Replacement must be done in
consultation with the academic advisor and notified to the Academic Office after grading in
the replacement course appears on the transcript.
A Level-based Credit (Adopted in 53rd AC)
FCCU will discontinue the policy of awarding credit for A-Level, Edexcel, and International
Baccalaureate (IB) exams, effective FA24-Levels (or similar exams) can be used
interchangeably with an associated course (see list below) to fulfill prerequisites for other
FCCU courses. Only grades B and above will be used for meeting prerequisite
requirements and only if the student wants to exercise this privilege. The student does not
get credit for the exempted course and still needs to take courses to fulfill all credit hour
requirements per their respective catalog. For example, MATH 201 Calculus II has a
prerequisite of MATH 102. If a student earns a B or higher in the "Pure Mathematics 3" A-
Level, then s/he has fulfilled the prerequisite for MATH 201 and can take MATH 201. The
Bachelor’s Catalog 2024-25
34
student does not get credit for MATH 102; the only benefit is that the prerequisite for MATH
201 has been met by the A-Level exam score of B or higher.
Biological Science for BIOL 105
Chemistry for CHEM 100
Physics for PHYS 100
Computer Science for CSCS 100
Pure Mathematics 1 or 2 for MATH 101
Pure Mathematics 3 for MATH 102
Economics for ECON 100
Geography for GEOG 101
History for HIST 102
Psychology for PSYC 100
Islamic Studies for ISLM 101
Christian Studies for CRST 152
Sociology for SOCL 100
Urdu for URDU 103
Current students who have already earned credit for A-Levels will keep those credits but
will need to earn a minimum of 120 (or 124 for “super seniors”) credits beyond any credits
earned from A-Levels.
Substitution of Research and Internship
Unless research (499) or internship (398/498) are core courses, students who do not
qualify due to CGPA requirement need to take additional courses in their major, to
substitute for Research and Internship to complete their credit requirement to graduate.
Independent Study (Online Form)
Credit may be earned through independent study by advanced students who exhibit both
the self-discipline and mastery of the methods demanded by the subject matter selected
by the student. An independent study project is designed by a student in consultation with
the Professor who is to supervise and evaluate the work. An academic contract, made in
advance, specifies the subject and method of inquiry, the texts, the purpose of the project,
and the basis of evaluation and credit. Each contract approved by the respective Dean of
Faculty and Chairperson should be deposited in the Academic Services Office for
registration and record keeping. Independent study forms are available on FCCU’s
website.
FCCU recognizes that many experiences outside the classroom may contribute to a
student's program. Internships, participation in community projects, and field experience
may be accorded credit if closely coordinated with the student's academic program. Such
experience ordinarily constitutes a part of a regular course or independent study project.
Transfer Credit
Credit is earned by migration or transfer from another degree-granting institution
recognized by the Higher Education Commission or accredited in the USA or UK, up to a
limit of 64 credit hours. A student transferring to FCCU from another institution should
request a transcript of work done in the other institution to be sent to the Admissions Office.
When the transcript has been evaluated by the Academic Services Office, the applicant is
notified of the credit acceptance by the Admissions Office.
Bachelor’s Catalog 2024-25
35
Course Credit that is Acceptable for Transfer
1. An official request for credit transfer must be made through:
• The Admissions Office, prior to new admission.
• The Academic Services Office, for students participating in approved student
exchange programs during their studies at FCCU.
2. An official transcript is required for all transfer credits to be reflected on the FCCU
transcript.
3. Transfer courses must be from an accredited institution.
4. The courses must align with FCCU’s degree requirements.
5. The grade for each transfer course must be "C" or better at the undergraduate level
to be accepted by FCCU.
6. Applicants with a CGPA below 2.0 must await case approval following evaluation.
7. The Chairperson of each department determines how transfer credits fulfill the
requirements for FCCU's major degree requirements.
8. The transfer of General Education requirements will be assessed by the Academic
Services Office.
Course Credit that is Unacceptable for Transfer
Transfer of credit based on the following is unacceptable:
1. Applicants that have previously withdrawn officially from FCCU.
2. Applicants that have been previously released for academic, or disciplinary
measures, including dismissals based on Academic Probation.
3. Unapproved study at another institution while an active student at FCCU.
4. Unapproved simultaneous enrolment at two institutions (one being FCCU) in the
same semester.
5. Distance learning programs that have not been properly approved prior to beginning.
6. Transfer credit request based on unofficial or photocopied transcript.
7. Transfer credit request based on private conventional BA/BS or equivalent
qualification while a regular student at FCCU.
8. Courses studied at non-accredited institutions.
Counting a Conventional Degree towards a 4-Year Bachelors
1. A petition for conversion must be submitted to the Admissions Services Office.
2. The transcript or result of the accredited university's conventional BA/BSc degree
must be submitted with this petition.
3. The Head of Academics will make a merit-based decision on the petition and
communicate this in writing to the student.
4. If the petition is approved, the conditions of transfer apply.
5. A maximum of 30 credit hours can be achieved through transfer at Forman at the
time of admission.
Readmission to the University
Students who have not been enrolled for three consecutive semesters will be dropped from
the university. They must seek readmission to the University to resume their studies by
submitting a Request for Readmission to the Associate Vice Rector for Academic Affairs
for final approval. It is the student's responsibility to submit a copy of the readmission
approval to:
1. The Accounts Office (for readmission fee and tuition)
Bachelor’s Catalog 2024-25
36
2. The Academic Office (for registration).
Once readmitted the student will apply for a new student ID card.
Termination of Study
A student at Forman can have his/her study terminated – enrolment annulled, on the
following grounds:
1. Completion of the Degree after obtaining accounts clearance (completion of degree
audit and official listing in graduation booklet at commencement).
2. Withdrawing from the University after obtaining clearance.
3. Completion of the Tenure of the program six years (12 regular semesters).
4. Removal from the rolls on disciplinary or administrative reasons (breach of academic
integrity, etc.).
5. Decision of Academic Review committee recommending dismissal.
Such students can reapply for enrolment anew, other than ones removed from rolls on
discipline grounds, in competition with fresh enrolment, as transfer students, and the
relevant departments can look at what courses can merit transfer (needing to complete
50% credits at FCC excluding transferred courses).
Registration Policies
Unofficial Presence in Class
Students may attend class only if they are officially registered. Instructors confirm
registration by reviewing the class roster. Students are required to attend all courses they
are registered for in a given semester and must attend the correct section to receive a
grade. Unofficial section changes are prohibited; students who switch sections without
approval or never showed up in the class will receive an "NS" (No Show) designation.
Registration Time Frame
Registration dates are published in the academic calendar available on the official website
of FCCU. All courses for which the student wishes to earn credit must be registered through
student web services. The student is responsible for every course listed on his/her account
schedule and can receive no credit for courses not listed there.
After registration, official changes in registration may be made only during official
add/drop periods when access to registration is again available online. No course may be
added after this deadline.
See 'Cancellation of Courses due to Low Enrolment' for that time frame.
Overloading Courses in a Semester (Online Form)
Under normal academic guidelines, students register for 5 courses, or up to 17 credits,
through the online system. However, students with a CGPA of 3.00 or higher may request
a credit overload from the Academic Advising Center. Senior students who have completed
90 credits may also be permitted to take an overload, regardless of CGPA, if the additional
course is required for graduation.
No Seat in Selected Course (Request Online for Seat Exception)
Due to high demand, seats in certain courses may fill quickly. However, students with a
compelling need to take a specific course in the current term may request entry. Approval
is at the discretion of both the course instructor and the department chair.
When seeking a seat in a course that is already full:
Bachelor’s Catalog 2024-25
37
1. Apply for Seat Exception online by going through the Online Seat Exception process
guide, which is available on FCCU's website in Student's Tab and on Academic
Services Office page Resources Tab.
2. The student must ensure that this course does not conflict in time with other courses
registered online before submitting the request for approval to the Instructor.
3. Any discrepancy must be dealt with in the applicable semester.
Prerequisite Waivers
Before enrolling in a course with prerequisite requirements, students must have
successfully completed the necessary prerequisites. In exceptional cases where this
requirement has not been met, students may request a waiver by petitioning the instructor.
If the waiver is approved, the instructor’s endorsement, along with written approval from
the department chair, should be submitted to the Academic Services Office for processing
within the registration period.
Confirmation of Registration
Upon completion of the registration procedures as outlined in the registration post on the
University website, the student's registration is confirmed on payment of the estimated bill
provided on the student’s web account. Payment must be made in entirety by the last date
mentioned on the academic calendar.
Business Holds
Students whose dues remain in arrears will be put on business holds. All courses on a
student's schedule at the end of add/drop will be charged. No courses will be deregistered,
but a business hold will be placed on the account and no further registrations will be done
until all fees are cleared. A fine will be charged for fees/dues paid after the stated deadline.
Cancellation of Courses due to Low Enrolment
1. After the close of add/drop, classes with low enrolment are likely to be closed,
particularly lower-level elective courses.
2. For Spring and Fall, low enrolment is 5 students for upper level (300/400) and 10
students for lower level (100/200) courses.
3. For Summer and Winter (optional semesters), low enrolment is 10 students for all
courses. However, in optional semesters the Low enrolment sections are not dropped
but shall continue if the faculty teaching their courses agree to keep them active.
4. The Chairperson will be informed of the closure of courses due to low enrolment
5. All instructors teaching courses with low enrolment must inform students of the
likelihood of closure, prior to the end of add/drop.
6. The Chairperson can also make the decision to continue with such a course provided
there is appropriate justification to do so.
7. If a registered course has been canceled, students of that course can visit the Academic
Services Office to arrange a satisfactory substitute, preferably within the add/drop
period or within 4 days of add/drop closure.
Grading Policies
Grades are final as given by an instructor unless a reason exists for change as stated
below. All grades will be locked onto the transcript at the time of degree awarding and will
not be changed subsequently. (See Grade Change Policy)
Bachelor’s Catalog 2024-25
38
Grading Legend
The grading system for undergraduate students is as follows:
Grade
Point Value
Numerical Value
Meaning
A
4.00
93-100
Superior
A-
3.70
90-92
B+
3.30
87-89
Good
B
3.00
83-86
B-
2.70
80-82
C+
2.30
77-79
Satisfactory
C
2.00
73-76
C-
1.70
70-72
D+
1.30
67-69
Passing
D
1.00
60-66
F
0.00
59 or below
Failing
NS
0.00
0.00
Did not show up in Class
W
-
-
Officially Withdrawn
AW
-
-
Administrative
Withdrawal/Dismissal
AU
-
-
Audit/Listener Status
I
-
-
Incomplete
T
-
-
Transferred credit
Transcript Updates
Students are accountable for reviewing their transcripts after each semester's grading
period and notifying the Academic Services Office of any inaccuracies, such as incorrect
placements on Academic Probation or misapplied Repeat course credits.
Bachelor’s Catalog 2024-25
39
Moreover, if a course is taken as a replacement for an exempted course, it must receive
proper approval and be submitted to the Academic Services Office for substitution
immediately following the grading period.
Courses that have dual designators (coding) are identified with an asterisk (*) to signify
their status as cross-listed courses. It is imperative for students to choose the correct
designator pertinent to their specific program, as these designations will not be altered on
the transcript post-grading.
In cases where a student registers for a cross-listed course twice under different
departmental codes (except when the initial registration resulted in a W, NS, or F grade),
the course credits will only be counted once. Consequently, the second registration will be
marked as "Academically Withdrawn" and assigned an AW grade.
Grade Change Policy
If an instructor of a student determines that a grade was issued incorrectly because of a
clerical or procedural error (a calculation error or one in transcribing the grade), it can be
corrected by submitting a grade change form to the Academic Services Office or by
submitting a grade change request remotely via EMPOWER login.
The manual procedure is as follows:
1. An original grade change form must be picked up from the Academic Services Office
by the Instructor of the course for which the change is being made.
a. Forms will not be given to the student requesting the grade change or department
administrative staff.
b. Grade Change forms must not be stored in excess by instructors/departments.
2. The grade change form must be filled completely:
a. The reason for the change must be stated clearly.
b. The form must be signed and dated by the instructor.
c. If the instructor is no longer on faculty, the grade change form can be processed
by the department Chairperson with approval from the respective Dean of
Faculty.
3. All grade changes carry a time limit.
a. Incompletes in courses and any other grade changes due to typing errors or
miscalculations will continue to be accepted by the Academic Services Office up
to 8 weeks of the following regular semester.
b. An Incomplete in Internship can remain unchanged for one semester.
c. Research should be awarded an "I" Incomplete in the semester registered and
changed within one year for Bachelors.
d. Research should be awarded an “I” in the semester registered and changed
within one Academic year for Bachelors.
e. A late grade change form can be submitted to the Academic Office after approval
of the Dean of Faculty, but final approval will be granted by the Vice Rector.
The grade change form must be submitted in person by the instructor within the stated
time frame. Only original forms will be accepted for grade change. Photocopied grade
change forms will not be approved.
Grade of 'I' (Incomplete)
1. A grade of “I” (Incomplete) indicates that, although a substantial proportion of the
course requirements have been met, the student has not completed all course
requirements by the end of the term.
2. In the judgment of the instructor the student:
a. Has been in good standing.
b. Is facing an emergency situation beyond his/her control.
Bachelor’s Catalog 2024-25
40
3. A student must submit the work required within six (6) weeks of the following
semester. If the work is not completed the grade of incomplete is automatically
changed to an F.
4. An Incomplete should never be given to a student who has performed poorly during
the entire semester and wants extra time to improve the grade.
5. An Incomplete in Internship can remain unchanged for one semester.
6. Research should be awarded an “I” in the semester registered and changed within
one Academic year for Bachelors.
Retaking a Course
• A student who has earned a grade of D or F in a course may retake the course. In
such cases, the higher of the two grades will be counted toward the CGPA.
• If a student retakes a course for the purpose of earning a higher grade outside of
the conditions above, the second enrollment will be recorded as "Academically
Withdrawn" (AW) on the transcript.
• If repeating a course with a D grade has caused double credits to appear on a
transcript, the student must apprise the Academic Services Office of this anomaly
and get it corrected immediately to avoid untoward circumstances delaying
graduation.
Policy on Multiple Final Exams in One Day [54th AC]
If a student has three or more final exams scheduled on the same day, s/he has the option
to reschedule one or more of the exams beyond two. It is the responsibility of the student to
contact his/her faculty member and make this arrangement. The new day and time must still
fall during the days of final exams, not before or after the final exam window. This
arrangement shall be communicated to the Department Chair and Dean for their approval,
with onward notice given to the Academic Services Office.
Withdrawal Policies
Course Withdrawal (Online Form)
• Students are allowed to withdraw from a course until the end of the tenth week of
the regular semester. Students who withdraw from a course by the withdrawal
deadline will receive a grade of “W” from the respective instructor.
• If a student does not officially drop a course or withdraws from a course after the
deadline, he/she will receive a grade earned or F or NS.
• In circumstances where Academic Policy has been breached or disciplinary action
taken, the Vice Rector's Office may award an AW (Administrative withdrawal) to a
student and withdraw the grade given for the applicable course.
• In extreme circumstances beyond the student's control, such as illness, accident or
death of a parent, permission will be granted to withdraw after the withdrawal
deadline. In extenuating circumstances “W” will be awarded by the Vice Rector's
office.
• Withdrawal from a course or courses does not affect a student's fee status. Students
must pay fees for withdrawn courses.
Temporary Withdrawal/Leave of Absence (Discontinuing for one
semester or year)
• Temporary Withdrawal indicates a student’s decision to discontinue studies for one
semester or one academic year.
• Students considering withdrawal should first consult with their Academic Advisor,
followed by a meeting with the Academic Advising Center (AAC). They must
Bachelor’s Catalog 2024-25
41
complete the withdrawal form and provide supporting documentation for their
request. The AAC will then submit the form, along with their recommendation, to the
Vice Rector’s Office.
• Students receiving financial aid are required to consult the Office of Financial Aid to
understand how the withdrawal may affect their financial aid eligibility.
• Once the withdrawal decision is finalized, the Vice Rector’s Office will forward the
withdrawal form and supporting documents to the Academic Services Office for
processing.
University Withdrawal (Online Form)
A University Withdrawal is defined as leaving the university permanently. If a student
decides to leave the University, the following steps must be completed:
1. The University Withdrawal Clearance Form must be downloaded from the website.
2. The student is responsible for obtaining clearance from the Library, Computer Lab,
Chief Conduct Officer, Accounts Office, and Science Laboratories.
3. The university ID card must be returned to the Accounts Office.
4. Once the completed form with all necessary clearances has been received, the
Academic Services Office will issue a Letter of Release.
5. To collect the security deposit, the student must provide a copy of the Letter of
Release to the Accounts Office.
6. If a student quits and fails to inform the university about the decision to discontinue
at the university, he/she will receive failing grades for all registered courses of the
respective semester. If the student does not cancel his/her registration prior to the
drop deadline, he/she will be held financially responsible for applicable tuition fees.
Degree Audit
Degree Audits show progress towards a degree being earned at the University. It is
mandatory that the student meet regularly with his/her advisor to keep a check on progress
and plan for courses towards degree completion. The authority in degree audit is the
published catalog which must be followed strictly.
In terms of credit, overall, the minimum requirement to graduate is 124 credits. Of these
some are earned in the Major Block and some in the General Education Block. One course
can be counted in two applicable blocks e. g. BIOL 221 is counted once in the Major and
helps towards total credits needed there. BIOL 221 can also be counted toward fulfilling
General Education Science requirements for a lab course. In this way a course can count
twice in two different blocks.
However, the credits will not be doubled. Credit-wise the course will only be counted once.
The credits will count for required major credits and will be a part of the 124 total required.
General Education does not require a calculation of credits. Rather, acceptable courses
have been taken in the required categories.
This is a commonly accepted way of counting courses and is done in other universities that
have General Education requirements for graduation apart from the Major.
Official Degree Audit
After students have completed all degree requirements from their catalog, an independent
degree audit is done by the Academic Services Office to determine compliance with
Catalog requirements and eligibility for degree awarding.
All majors or minors added to the degree after the primary major has been declared must
Bachelor’s Catalog 2024-25
42
be fulfilled from one catalog to pass the independent degree audit.
The Academic Services Office will email and send SMS to students prior to
commencement each year, that reflects degree completion status and eligibility for
participation in commencement. It is the student's and advisor's responsibility to ensure
that the requirements for graduation have been met specifically as stated in the published
catalog.
Ineligibility for Commencement
If requirements have not been met, the student will need to report the matter to the
Academic Advisor and Head of Academic Advising, as well as apprise his/her department
Chairperson of the situation. The degree application will need to be canceled at the
Academic Services Office and participation in commencement will be withdrawn.
Urgent Degree Application Process
Students may apply for an urgent degree at any time before commencement, provided all
degree requirements, as outlined above, have been fully satisfied.
If a student applied for commencement but their degree application was withdrawn due to
non-compliance, they may reapply for an urgent degree once all requirements are met at
the time of application. Requests for an urgent degree must be submitted to the Academic
Services Office, require additional payment, and take approximately three weeks to
process.
Addressing Anomalies in Departmental Offerings and Catalog
Requirements
If anomalies exist between semester offerings and catalog requirements, students, along
with their advisors must immediately apprise the department Chairperson of the need to
facilitate them by offering a course that is listed on their catalog whether this is a core or a
required elective.
One Course in Lieu of Another
If the department decides to change a core or required elective from a past catalog through
deletion or dormancy or inactive, while the catalog is still active, the department
Chairperson must:
1. Acquire approval of the Dean of Faculty in regard to any exception being made in
lieu of such a course, justifying its applicability to one or all students.
2. The Dean will then formally communicate this approval to the Academic Services
Office in writing.
Policy on Privacy
Forman Christian College (A Chartered University) guarantees both the privacy and the
confidentiality of all student educational records as well as each student's right to access
those records. The official custodian of student records is the Head of Academic Services
Office with authorized processing carried out by the Academic Services Office staff.
Access to student records is limited to the student but can with the student's written
authorization and accompanied with the student ID, be granted to parents or guardian,
current instructors, counseling and administrative staff with legitimate interests, or any
party designated by the student.
Authorized officials of the government, accrediting agencies, as well as persons bearing a
lawful judicial order or subpoena may also request access to student records by presenting
Bachelor’s Catalog 2024-25
43
proper documentation with a reason supporting such access.
A student or former student has the right to access his or her records. However, the
University may deny access if the student has unpaid financial obligations to the University.
Requests for access or copies of records must be made in writing to the Head of
Academics who will comply within seven business days. Following review, a student may
request any portion of his or her record to be edited, provided that supporting
documentation is produced or available.
ACADEMIC SUPPORT
FOR STUDENTS
Bachelor’s Catalog 2024-25
45
UNIV 100
Prerequisite: exemption from or completion of the English Language Program (ELP).
All entering students must take UNIV 100 during their first semester or after they have
finished the ELP program. University 100 is a mandatory course that must be completed
in the first year at FCCU. A student cannot drop UNIV 100 during the drop period. The
instructor of the UNIV 100 course will be the student's academic advisor for the first two
years until the student declares a major.
Transfer students with 60 or more credits are exempt from UNIV 100 and will be assigned
an Advisor by the Head of Advising directly.
Advising
Each student will be assigned to a faculty member who will serve as his/her Advisor. The
Advisor will work with the student to select courses and class schedules, and they will
discuss career planning and personal growth. Once the student selects a major program
of study, the advising will be done by a faculty member from that department. It is each
student's responsibility to meet with his or her Advisor at least once each semester to
review their academic progress. Students will have as much guidance as they need and
as much freedom as they can responsibly handle.
Students on Academic Probation must meet the Advisor as per the probation requirements.
Students must contact the Head of Advising in the event that an Advisor is unavailable for
an extended period of time.
Academic Support for Students
AWARDS
Bachelor’s Catalog 2024-25
47
Vice Rector's List
The Vice Rector's List is published following the Fall Semester and the Spring Semester
and includes names of students who completed at least four courses with a grade point
average of 3.75 or better. Students with incomplete grades at the time of publication are
not eligible.
This achievement appears on the student official transcript and a certificate can also be
issued if ‘requested’.
Honors at Graduation
Latin Honors
FCCU awards diplomas with Latin Honors to qualified students in each graduating class.
The criteria and designation for graduation with Latin Honors are:
Summa Cum Laude (Highest Honors)
3.90 or above CGPA
Magna Cum Laude (High Honors)
3.70 to 3.89 CGPA Cum
Laude (Honors)
3.50 to 3.69 CGPA
Migrated (transferred) students are eligible to graduate with Honors if they have completed
more than half of their credit requirements for graduation at FCCU.
Scholar Athlete Trophy
This trophy is awarded to the students who fulfill the following criteria:
• Senior standing (transfer students MUST have completed at least half the required
credits to graduate at FCCU)
• CGPA at end of Junior year 3.00 or above
• No academic probations
• Involved in team sports/track and field/swimming
• Participated in a minimum of nine intervarsity competitions over the three years
• Won first or second place in a minimum of three intervarsity competitions
• Participated in intramurals
•
Won intramurals
• Cleared the fitness test
• Participated and won a position in at least two events at the Annual Sports Gala for
two years
• Consistently displays sportsmanship
• Clear of any disciplinary actions

LIBERAL ARTS
Bachelor’s Catalog 2024-25
53
A Liberal Arts Education
Forman Christian College (A Chartered University) is currently the only University in
Pakistan offering a true liberal arts Bachelors’ education, which provides the students with
a good balance of depth and breadth of learning. This is done by ensuring that in addition
to their selected major, all Bachelor’s students take a minimum number of courses in
Humanities, Natural Sciences, Mathematics and Information Technology and Social and
Behavioral Sciences.
Depth of learning gives students the opportunity for career preparation; it teaches them to
think critically, communicate effectively, solve problems and become lifelong learners,
while breadth of learning provides the basis for students to understand modern issues as
they develop, and to live a quality life. It develops in them a healthy curiosity about the
world and above all to be good citizens of their countries and the world.
The 4-year Bachelor’s program is designed to prepare graduates to succeed in a wide
variety of occupations and to advance to positions with higher responsibilities. The program
provides a world-class education at Pakistani prices. Our graduates are able to enter
postgraduate programs abroad without taking further courses.
Majors/Areas of Concentration/Minors
A liberal arts education gives students the opportunity to choose from a wide variety of
majors, minors and specializations in a major in consultation with their academic Advisor.
Students can also choose to do double majors, minors and more than one specialization
after discussion with the relevant department and their Advisor.
General Education
An important part of the program for each student is General Education. Students must
take a total of 15 courses in the General Education program. This includes courses in each
of the following areas of human knowledge: Humanities, Social and Behavioral Sciences
and Science and Mathematics.
Liberal Arts
CAREER SERVICES &
INTERNSHIPS
OFFICE
Bachelor’s Catalog 2024-25
55
The Career Services and Internships Office (CSIO) at Forman Christian College (A
Chartered University) aims to provide comprehensive guidance and counseling to its
students and graduates on career development. It provides consistent assistance to
students in finding attractive jobs and internships.
Career Services
The Career Services and Internships Office has strong linkages with national and
multinational leading employers, industrialists, government officials and distinguished
members of FCCU's alumni. Throughout the year, it organizes a wide range of on-campus
activities such as career exploration lectures, recruitment drives, resume development and
career-building workshops, employer-hosted information sessions, mock interviews and
job fairs.
Job fairs facilitate students meeting prospective employers from leading companies and
submitting their resumes for relevant job and internship opportunities. During such events,
many recruiters conduct on-the-spot interviews and share information about their
recruitment policies, company profiles and hiring procedures with the students.
The CSO also produces an Annual Employers' Guide that is sent to numerous
organizations in Pakistan. Each Guide consists of a brochure describing FCCU's programs,
a list of graduates with their majors and specializations, and a CD of all the graduates'
resumes.
All these activities are designed to assist FCCU's students in becoming self-sufficient as
they build their own life-long career strategies. These strategies continue well beyond
graduation.
Internships
The Career Services and Internships Office contributes to the students' personal and
professional development by helping them with internship placements and career-related
experiences that complement classroom learning. It provides:
• Assistance and guidance to students in receiving attractive internships
• Establishes healthy relationship with students and counsels them to excel in their
professional careers
• Advice and training on proper job etiquette and skills needed to be excellent
employees
• Opportunities for strengthening relationships with existing and potential employers
Career Services and Internships Office
THE INTERNATIONAL
EDUCATION
OFFICE
Bachelor’s Catalog 2024-25
57
The International Education Office (IEO) at Forman Christian College (A Chartered
University) is committed to providing inclusive counseling and advising for extensive
opportunities in prestigious foreign universities. The Office has joint relations with the
official representatives of international universities in Australia, Canada, Egypt, France,
Germany, Kenya, Korea, Malaysia, Thailand, Turkey, UAE, UK, USA and other countries
to explore admission, scholarship and semester exchange opportunities for FCCU's
students. IEO organizes an extensive range of on-campus events/seminars with
international University representatives throughout the year, including:
● Annual Education Fair
● Informative presentations and seminars
● One-on-one counseling sessions
● Mock interviews for admissions and scholarships
● Trainings and workshops on:
a. How to apply for admission and scholarships
b. Writing Statement of Purpose
c. Guidelines for IELTS, GRE, TOEFL preparation, etc.
The International Education Office
ADMINISTRATION
Bachelor’s Catalog 2024-25
59
Vice Rector’s Office
Dr. Douglas E. Trimble
Vice Rector for Academic Affairs
Dr. Gloria Calib
Associate Vice Rector for Academic Affairs
Dr. Sufian Aslam
Associate Vice Rector for Faculty Affairs
Vice Rector Office
vicerectoroffice@fccollege.edu.pk
Academic Advising Office
Dr. Anam Muzamill
Head of Academic Advising
advisingcenter@fccollege.edu.pk
Academic Services Office
Mr. Rohail Shahzad
Head of Academic Services
academicoffice@fccollege.edu.pk
Accounts Office
Mr. Furqan Seith Mall
Chief Financial Officer
furqanseith@fccollege.edu.pk
Mr. Muhammad Ahmad Awan
Manager Accounts and Finance
fccaccounts@fccollege.edu.pk
Admissions Office
Mr. Suleman Khairullah
Head of Admissions
admissions@fccollege.edu.pk
Campus Counseling Center
Ms. Bandgi Zafar
Administrator
ccc@fccollege.edu.pk
Career Services Office
Mr. Adnan Ilyas
Head of Career Services
cso@fccollege.edu.pk
Administration
Bachelor’s Catalog 2024-25
60
Controller of Examinations
Dr. Mian Wajahat Hussain
Controller of Examinations
coe@fccollege.edu.pk
Faculty Advising Office
Dr. Atiq-ur-Rehman
Head of Faculty Advising
atiqrehman@fccollege.edu.pk
Deans
Dr. Kauser Abdulla Malik HI, SI, TI
Dean of Postgraduate Studies/Director ORIC
kausermalik@fccollege.edu.pk
Dr. Hassan Amir Shah
Dean of Natural Sciences
hassanshah@fccollege.edu.pk
Dr. Sikandar Hayat
Dean of Social Sciences
sikandarhayat@fccollege.edu.pk
Dr. Ahmed Mahmood Qureshi
Dean of Computer and Mathematical Sciences
mahmoodqureshi@fccollege.edu.pk
Dr. Saeed Shafqat
Director of Center for Public Policy and Governance
saeedshafqat@fccollege.edu.pk
Dr. Martin Thomas
Dean of Education
martinthomas@fccollege.edu.pk
Dr. Altaf Ullah Khan
Dean of Humanities
altafkhan@fccollege.edu.pk
Dr. Rao Raza Hashim
Dean of Business and Management
razahashim@fccollege.edu.pk
Ewing Memorial Library
Farrukh Shahzad
Chief Librarian
library@fccollege.edu.pk
Financial Aid Office
Phool Shahzad
Head Financial Aid
financialaid@fccollege.edu.pk
Bachelor’s Catalog 2024-25
61
Food and Beverages Office
Robin Dass
General Manager Food and Beverages
fbmanager@fccollege.edu.pk
