1
Policies and Procedures
Residential Life Office
The Residential Life office supports the mission of Forman Christian College Lahore by
developing safe, inclusive and vibrant communities that value academic excellence and overall
student development. We have always inculcated a sense of responsibility through various
activities that makes them live together in a diverse and vibrant community. On campus student
residence is available for the students who are living outside of Lahore.
Hostel Details
Hope Tower
Undergraduate Women Hostel
House 38
Postgraduate Women Hostel
Sherazi Hall
Undergraduate Men Hostel
West Hall
Undergraduate Men Hostel
Griswold Hall
Intermediate Boys Hostel
Newton Hall
Intermediate Boys Hostel
Velte Hall
Intermediate Boys Hostel
Kennedy Hall
Intermediate Boys Hostel
When to Apply
First Year and Freshman can apply as soon as they get Roll Numbers.
Continuing students should apply from 20th April to 10th May every year.
How to apply (Intermediate and Baccalaureate Freshmen)
Form must be filled to apply for hostel space. Hostel allotment is done on first come first serve
basis. Please fill of the form as per your admission class & gender. (1st year/2nd year/
Freshman Baccalaureate Male /Existing students Male/ Baccalaureate & Postgraduate Female).
Applicant must follow the given process to apply for the hostel.
Step 1: New Students must obtain Roll Number from the Admissions Office.
Step 2: Go to empower.fccollege.edu.pk
2. Login with your roll number
3. Click on Housing Request
4. Submit the form
Step 3: Applicant will receive a confirmation call. Make sure your phone number is switched on.
Hostel staff will make three tries to reach out to the applicant, otherwise they will move to the
next applicant. In case applicant do not receive a confirmation call, it means you are on the
waiting list and as soon as there will be a space in hostel you will be contacted. The waiting list
will expire after 02 weeks of display. In case of no response, authorities will not be responsible
for the reservation.
Step 4: To secure the admission, fill out the allotment form and attach photocopies of the
required documents.
2

Copy of Roll Number Slip

Father’s CNIC Copy

Copy of result card is compulsory (for intermediate students)

1 Passport size photograph

For overseas student, attach a copy of passport

Fee submission challan form according to the occupancy type.
Room allotment duration
Intermediate boys are allotted hostel only for two years.
Baccalaureate males are allotted hostels only for two years (Fall Freshman & Sophomore) or four
semesters. Juniors and Seniors can be accommodated subject to the availability of space.
Preference will be given to the students on scholarship, overseas and having medical issues.
Masters women are allotted rooms only for four semesters or two years. No extension will be
granted for pending research or thesis or any extra semester.
Baccalaureate Women are allotted rooms only for eight semesters or four years.
Only regular and registered students will be allowed stay at the hostel. Part time students are
not eligible to avail the hostel facility. University residents must register at least 3 course or 12
credit hours to continue their hostel allotment.
Fee Structure
Intermediate students must pay fee according to the installment plan.
Baccalaureate students must pay fee semester-wise. Hostel and mess fee must be cleared
Check university website for update information regarding hostel fee.
Students need to pay hostel and mess dues, before commencement of semester.

Compulsory mess charges include onetime meal in a day.

Extra meals will be charged to residents monthly.

Occupancy and Mess Fee is updated every semester by Residential Life office on FCCU
website.
Room or Hostel Change Policy
In case of disciplinary issue or offense against hostel rules and regulations, Residential Life
office reserve the right to shift any resident to other hostel.
Resident may apply for a room change if there exist uninhabitable circumstances for allotted
room, Hostel guardian will review the request and can recommend the hostel room change to
Residential Life office at end of a term (subject to availability). Head of Residential Life &
Guardian of respective hostel will review application to make decision, subject to the conditions.
Residential Life office holds discretion for approval or rejection of the room change request.
3
Equipment in Rooms
Residents will be provided essential furniture in their room and he/she will be responsible for
furniture and electrical items. Furniture must not be removed from one room to another. No
hostel property or fittings should be damaged. Repair charges for any damage (intentional or
through negligence) will be recovered from the concerned resident.
Microware facility is available for all hostel residents.
Heater, electric kettles, refrigerators and other electric appliances are strictly not allowed in the
boys and men’s hostels.
Residents are not allowed to put nails, cards, and posters on the walls, cupboards and doors of
their rooms.
Allowed appliances in Hope Tower
Women residents may install air-conditioners(AC)in their rooms. Monthly Rs.10,000/- will be
charged as an electricity bill.
Women residents may install a room air cooler in their rooms. Monthly Rs.1000/- will be charged
as an electricity bill.
Women resident may keep refrigerator in their rooms. Monthly Rs.1000/- will be charged as
electricity bill.
Residents are responsible for making arrangements for installing electric appliances.
Residential Life office will not cater such requests.
Recommended personal items and accessories
Bedding: Bedsheets, pillows, pillowcases, blankets and quilts
Bathroom: Towels, hangers, bucket, tub and mug
Cleaning: Dustbin, dusters, Small brush/broom with dust pan
Utensils: dishes, glasses, cups, spoons
Room: Foot mat, emergency light, slippers, Mosquito repellant
Meals
Meals timings must be adhered strictly.
Meals will be served in the hostel-dining hall during specified mess hours.
Meal schedule will be displayed in the dining hall.
Residents’ are not allowed to take food (full or leftover) out of the dining hall.
Hostel crockery and cutlery are not allowed to be taken out of the dining hall.
Residents are not allowed to cook anything in the hostel kitchen.
Mess Committee
Chosen residents from each residential block will become the hostel mess committee.
The committee will liaison with the Food and Beverage office to suggest them monthly menu
and to make changes in the menu along with the hostel management.
4
Members will also give feedback to the Food and Beverage office about the menu and quality of
the food supplied in the hostel mess.
Food delivery timing
Residents are allowed to order food through online apps. There is no time restriction, however
the food delivery person must fulfil the security protocols.
Daily Attendance
Resident Assistants will assist hostel guardian to take daily attendance.
All residents must check-in and check-out by tapping card at the hostel gate and enter data in
the register that is with the gatekeeper.
Residential Life office and hostel guardian will not be considered responsible during the college
or university time, it is to be assumed that students are on campus attending their classes or
working in labs etc.
Leaves
Residents must submit leave application for any leaves.
Leave during weekdays: Applicant must be submitted at-least a day before the resident plan to
leave the hostel. In case of an emergency resident should provide the college/university leave
application, stating the reason of leave. Parents must inform the hostel guardian about the leave
and verify the applied leave.
Weekend Leave: Apply by Thursday evening, if resident is planning to go home or wants to stay
with the local guardian during weekend. Parents must inform the hostel guardian over the phone
regarding the plan of staying.
Failing to submit the leave application will result in fine as per schedule.
Three consecutive absents will result in expulsion.
Late coming penalty
Hostel gates will be closed at 10pm, all residents must mark their attendance at the hostel gate.
In case student comes late he/she will be charged fine.
1st time, fine will be charged Rs.2000/- and a warning letter
2nd time, fine will be charged Rs.3000/- and a warning letter
3rd time, fine will be charged Rs.5000/- and a final warning letter
4th time, expulsion letter
Curfew timing
All residents must follow the curfew timing from 10pm to 7am. Nobody is allowed to go out
during that time.
Extension in curfew timing
Intermediate residents are not eligible for the extension in curfew timing.
5
Baccalaureate/post graduate residents can request extension in curfew timings if resident is
employed during the curfew timing, necessary documentation should be provided in the
Residential Life office. Head of Residential Life is the approving authority.
In case any resident is participating in college or university event during curfew time. Written
confirmation letter/email from Manager Student Activities must be provided to Residential Life
office.
If residents are participating in departmental events or going on tour, permission must be sought
from the Hostel Guardian two days prior to the said event.
Residents will not be given extension if he/she is participating in an outside event.
Quiet hours
For Intermediate Hostels
The residents must be in their rooms after 10pm. Residents are not allowed to stay in any of
their friend’s room. No justification will be accepted.
For University Hostels
The residents must be in their rooms after 11:00 P.M. Residents are not allowed to stay in any
other resident's room. No justification will be accepted.
Group Study
During examinations, residents are allowed to utilize common room for group study until 10pm
(Intermediate) and until 11pm(University).
TV Lounge Timing
TV Lounge will be closed at 10:30pm
Laundry and Ironing
Laundry man is available to provide laundry service to men’s hostel. He is located between
Newton hall and Velte Hall.
Hope Tower residents can avail laundry facility at Hope Tower Laundry room.
Iron stand is available in all hostels. Resident can get Iron from gate keeper against their ID
card.
Female residents may bring their own iron and can only use it in the designated place for
ironing.
6
Visiting Hours
Only the registered family members of residents can visit from 4pm to 6pm in the hostel guest
room for 30 min maximum with open door. Visitor pass will be issued by the gate security and
vehicle should be parked in the main parking.
All other visitors can meet the resident in the waiting area at the canal gate reception.
Residents are only allowed to meet visitors who have been approved by their parents and
Identification details were submitted at the time of hostel admission.
Residents are not allowed to take their visitors anywhere other than hostel visitor room.
Day scholars are not allowed to enter in the hostel premises.
Parking Facility
Intermediate hostel residents are not allowed to bring any vehicle on campus in any case.
Female residents can get parking sticker after the approval from Residential Life Office, if they
are enrolled in any evening post graduate program and they are regular/full time employee of an
organization.
To avail parking facility, submit an application along with copy of an employment letter and
schedule for semester to Residential Life office.
Emergency Medical Facility
In case of any medical emergency after curfew hours, the guardians will accompany the
resident to Merch Health Center.
In case a resident admitted in the hospital, the hostel guardian will inform resident’s local
guardian to come to the hospital and take responsibility of the medical treatment.
Parents must sign an undertaking and disclose the need of any medical assistance or has any
medical history. Parents will also sign an undertaking that the hostel management is authorized
to take decision in case of any medical emergency.
Ambulance facility at Mercy Health Center is available to take residents to the hospital.
Ambulance will not stay at the hospital.
Repairs, maintenance and cleaning
All requests for room repairs must be written in the maintenance register.
Resident must be present in the room when repair team comes for room repair.
Residents must clean their rooms thoroughly at least once a week.
Littering is not allowed in the hostel area. Trash must be put in the trashcans.
7
Hostel clearance and security refund
If resident is graduating or planning to leave the hostel, residents must get hostel clearance.
Clearance form is available at the Residential Life office or can be downloaded from FCCU
website. Resident must get it signed from Residential Life office and then from hostel guardian,
after that form must be submitted to Food & Beverage office for clearance. It must be notable
that the given order of submission is mandatory.
Punishable Offenses
Hostel guardian will issue the warning letter for the first time with fine. If resident continue to
violate the set rules, second warning letter will be issued by Head of Residential Life with fine.
Third time, Allotment cancellation letter will be issued by the Chief Student Life officer.
Therefore, we expect residents to abide by the rule and regulation of the hostels.
The listed violations are punishable and warning letter, allotment cancellation letter will be
issued, and fines will be charged.
Unauthorized electric appliances will be confiscated
Tampering the electric fixtures, telephone wires, internet Wi-Fi connections, switches, lights and
fans etc.
Put clothes and dishes in the lounges and washrooms.
Leaving the room unlocked while the resident is on leave or not in the room.
Resident is on vacations /holidays/weekends without turning off the electric appliances.
Shifting to other room or putting the luggage and possessions to other room without prior
permission of the Hostel Guardian.
Gambling in all forms and manifestations.
Creating noise and disturbing others in any way.
Giving keys of their room to other resident while going on leave with the intension that the other
resident may use his/her room.
Sitting in another resident’s room during curfew hours.
Continue to come late.
Dropping items from first floor to ground floor with/without strings or lifting through a string from
the corridors to the first floor.
Expellable offense
The listed violations will lead to allotment cancellation.
Inviting and bringing guests/visitors/ day scholars in hostel premises.
Involvement in any kind of fight, possession of a weapons
Keeping a motorbike/car or any other vehicle and parking inside, outside of the hostel gate, or
anywhere on the campus.
Misbehaving with the hostel staff and management.
Possession of drugs, liquor or intoxicants in any form.
Misrepresentation of document/ Forgery of signature or document.
8
Smoking in the hostel premises.
Possession of firearms or weapons.
Damage the hostels property.
Creating noise and disturbing others.
Organizing any kind of political/public or religious gatherings.
Keeping pets.
Breaking curfew repeatedly.
Sexual Harassment
Bullying
Forgery of any kind
Stealing and immoral behavior if proven will result in immediate expulsion of a resident.
General instructions
Residents are not allowed to listen loud music that can be disturbing for the other roommate or
other residents.
Strict
disciplinary
action
will
be
taken
against
the
residents
who
involve
in
bullying/smoking/using drugs/harassment.
Residents are required to vacate room, in case of summer vacations, not enrolled in semester,
summer internship or research during summer vacation. Luggage must be removed from the
room by the residents and the hostel guardian or Residential Life office will not be responsible in
any case of loss or damage.
The residents enrolled in summer must provide application to the guardian along with the
course registration. Residents who are placed on internship must provide letter from their
internship office and research students are required to provide application duly signed by the
Supervisor/ head of department.
Residents will not be permitted to stay in hostel during vacations spanning over five days or
more.
Residents are not allowed to come back or stay before the announced hostel opening date.
All residents must check the hostel board daily to keep themselves updated and aware of the
announcements.
Residents are not allowed to wander in the hostel in inappropriate/partial clothes. Residents
should be properly dressed up when they are out of their rooms.
All residents are expected to conduct themselves in a socially, culturally and an ethically
appropriate manner.
9
Every resident of the hostel has the civic responsibility that he/she should not be a cause of
inconvenience, annoyance or disturbance to others.
Possession of valuables such as gold jewelry, watches and large amount of cash is prohibited.
In case of a theft or a resident losing anything expensive the hostel administration is not
responsible. Students are liable to keep their belonging safe.
Resident Assistant
The Resident Assistants will live in hostels and actively facilitate positive student wellbeing and
good order. He/she is required to take responsibility for incidents occurring while on call and to
provide a link between the Hostel Guardian and its resident students. Further responsibilities
include that he/she
Ensure that all rules are being followed by the residents.
Report to the Hostel Guardian
Plan and conduct activities for residents during evening hours
Oversee attendance and monitor curfew being observed by residents
Conduct fortnightly meetings with respective residents
To be available during evenings and at least one weekend per month.
To report any misconduct or incident taking place in the hostel.
To coordinate with the hostel in charge on issues affecting residents and to report any
maintenance defects, hazards etc. with the degree of urgency appropriate to the situation.
Conduct fortnightly meetings with your respective residents
To attend fortnightly meetings with RAs and Hostel In charge
Work with other RAs and hostel in charge for student activities
To be available to assist with the arrival, orientation and weekend departure of residents
throughout the term.
